A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels written by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. Martin began the series in 1991 and published the first volume, A Game of Thrones, in 1996. Martin gradually extended the originally planned trilogy into seven volumes. The fifth installment, A Dance with Dragons, took Martin five years to write before it was published in 2011. The sixth book, The Winds of Winter, is currently being written.
The story of A Song of Ice and Fire takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos, with a history of thousands of years. The series is told in the third person by point of view (POV) characters, whose number reaches 31 by the fifth novel. Three stories become interwoven: the chronicling of a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the dormant cold supernatural Others dwelling beyond an immense wall of ice on Westeros’ northern border; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled daughter of a king murdered in a civil war shortly before her birth, to return to Westeros with her fire-breathing dragons and claim her rightful throne.
Drawing inspiration from historical events such as the English period of the Wars of the Roses, Martin defied the conventions of the high fantasy genre. The series received praise for its realism; it subdues magic in favor of battles and political intrigue. The first novel contains practically no magic at all, yet the presence of magic keeps growing for each book. Violence, sexuality and moral ambiguity are frequently displayed among a set of over a thousand named characters. Major characters are often killed off so that readers cannot rely on the supposed heroes to remain safe and sound. The multiple viewpoint structure allows characters to be explored from many sides so that the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. In contrast to an omniscient storyteller, this structure can present the reader with misleading information as it is slanted by each character’s own interpretation of events, rather than being a strictly factual presentation. A Song of Ice and Fire also received critical commentary for its diverse portrayal of women and religion.Game Of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire)
Book Description
A Clash of Kings is the second novel in A Song of Ice and Fire, an epic fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin expected to consist of seven volumes. It was first published on 16 November 1998 in the United Kingdom, although the first United States edition did not follow until March 1999. Like its predecessor, A Game of Thrones, it won the Locus Award (in 1999) for Best Novel and was nominated for the Nebula Award (also in 1999) for best novel. In May 2005 Meisha Merlin released a limited edition of the novel, fully illustrated by John Howe.
The novel has been adapted for television by HBO as the second season of the TV series Game of Thrones.
A Clash of Kings is also the name of the first expansion to the Game of Thrones board game.
Plot summary
A Clash of Kings depicts the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in civil war, while the Night's Watch mounts a reconnaissance to investigate the mysterious people known as wildlings. Meanwhile, Daenerys Targaryen continues her plan to reconquer the Seven Kingdoms.
In the Seven Kingdoms
With King Robert Baratheon dead, his son Joffrey Baratheon and brothers Renly and Stannis all claim the throne of Westeros. Robb Stark is declared 'King in the North' while Balon Greyjoy declares himself king of the Iron Islands and attacks the western coast of the North. Robb's younger brother Bran Stark finds new friends in Jojen and Meera Reed.
Stannis Baratheon declares himself King of Westeros, encouraged by Melisandre of Asshai, a priestess who believes Stannis the reincarnation of Azor Ahai, a messianic figure of her faith. The war is dubbed the War of the Five Kings. Catelyn Stark, under orders from her son King Robb Stark, meets Renly and Stannis to discuss alliance against the Lannisters; but the ensuing parley ends in acrimony and Renly resolves to destroy his brother with his larger army. However, without warning a mysterious shadow comes to life in Renly's own tent and kills him. Shocked, Catelyn and the only other witness, the warrior-maid Brienne of Tarth, flee the scene. Having lost Renly, the storm lords have no choice but to declare for Stannis. Storm's End itself only falls, however, when Stannis's loyal Ser Davos, a former smuggler, sneaks Melisandre below the castle in a small boat. To his horror, Melisandre gives birth to a shadow which enters Storm's End and slays its stubborn castellan.
Tyrion Lannister arrives at King's Landing as acting Hand of the King, the closest adviser to the monarch Joffrey. Whilst intriguing against Joffrey's mother, the Queen Regent Cersei, Tyrion improves the defenses of the city. Learning of Renly's death, Tyrion resolves on two courses of action. Knowing that the Tyrells will not be happy following Stannis, he decides to make them a better offer. He also resolves to bring the Martells of Dorne into the war on his side. He sends Littlefinger to treat with the Tyrells and sends other messengers to Dorne.The negotiations are solidified by marriage arrangements. Lord Mace Tyrell agrees to wed his daughter Margaery to King Joffrey I, whilst Prince Doran Martell agrees to marry his son Trystane to Joffrey's sister Myrcella.
To conquer the North and to impress his father Balon, Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell, taking Bran and Rickon captive; but Bran and Rickon disappear in the night. Rather than admit his failure, Theon murders two anonymous peasant boys similar in size to Bran and Rickon and mutilates their faces to enhance the resemblance. Believing this ruse, Stark supporters besiege the castle, joined by a force from House Bolton. Theon having conspired with Bolton's bastard son, Ramsay Snow, the Bolton soldiers turn on the besiegers and Theon opens the gates to the victorious Boltons, whereupon they destroy Winterfell, slaughter its inhabitants and take Theon prisoner. Osha, a captured wildling turned castle servant, takes Rickon to safety while Bran, accompanied by Meera, Jojen, and his simpleton manservant Hodor, travels north. Robb Stark wins several victories against the Lannisters, and Tywin Lannister advances against him, but receiving news that King's Landing is threatened, withdraws.
Arya Stark, posing as a boy named Arry, is taken north by Yoren as a new recruit for the Night's Watch. However, they are attacked by Lannister freeriders led by Ser Amory Lorch and Yoren is killed at a town on the shores of Gods Eye. The survivors are taken to Harrenhal and put to work as servants in the undermanned castle. For saving his life during the attack, a man named Jaqen H'ghar promises to repay Arya by killing three men of her choice. For her three choices, Arya selects Chiswyck, a soldier in Gregor Clegane's forces, Weese, her servant overseer, and Jaqen H'ghar himself. The first two murders he carries out without question; in lieu of the third choice, Arya leverages H'ghar to help her slay the Lannister soldiers guarding Robett Glover, who had been taken prisoner by the Brave Companions. After Glover is freed, the Brave Companions turn their cloaks and join with the North. H'ghar gives Arya a mysterious iron coin and tells her to find him in Braavos if she should ever desire to learn his secrets. He then adopts a new identity and leaves. Control of Harrenhal is ceded to Roose Bolton, whom Arya serves as cupbearer, but soon escapes.
In the Battle of Blackwater Bay, Stannis Baratheon's army reaches King's Landing and launches assaults by both land and sea. The Baratheon forces vastly outnumber the Lannister defenders but under Tyrion's command, the Lannister forces use "wildfire" (similar to Greek fire) to ignite the bay, and raise a massive chain across its mouth to prevent Stannis's fleet from retreating. Stannis's attack fails when Tywin Lannister leads his army (and the remaining forces under Mace Tyrell) to King's Landing. During the defense of the castle, Tyrion is attacked by one of Joffrey's guards, and rescued by his squire, Podrick Payne. Stannis's fate is left uncertain.
On the Wall
A scouting party from the Night's Watch learn that the wildlings are uniting under 'King-beyond-the-Wall' Mance Rayder. The Watch then continue to an ancient hill-top fortress known as the Fist of the First Men, whence Jeor Mormont sends Jon Snow and Qhorin Halfhand with others to the Skirling Pass, where they are hunted by wildling warriors. Facing certain defeat, Halfhand commands Snow to infiltrate the wildlings and learn their plans. They are captured by wildlings who demand Jon fight Qhorin to join them. Jon kills Qhorin with the aid of his direwolf, Ghost and Jon learns that Mance Rayder is advancing on the Wall with thirty-thousand wildlings, giants, and mammoths.
In the East
Daenerys Targaryen travels east, accompanied by the knight Jorah Mormont, her remaining followers, and three newly hatched dragons. Scouts find a safe route to the city of Qarth, where her dragons make Daenerys notorious. Xaro Xhoan Daxos, the leader of the Thirteen, a prominent group of traders in Qarth, initially befriends the outsiders; but Daenerys cannot secure aid in claiming the throne of Westeros, because she refuses to give away any of her dragons. As a last resort, Daenerys seeks counsel from the warlocks of Qarth, who show Daenerys many confusing visions and threaten her life, whereupon one of Daenerys's dragons, Drogon, burns down the warlocks' "House of the Undying". An attempt to assassinate Daenerys is thwarted by a fat warrior named Strong Belwas and his squire Arstan Whitebeard: agents of Daenerys's ally Illyrio Mopatis, who have come to escort her back to Pentos.
A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels written by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. Martin began the series in 1991 and published the first volume, A Game of Thrones, in 1996. Martin gradually extended the originally planned trilogy into seven volumes. The fifth installment, A Dance with Dragons, took Martin five years to write before it was published in 2011. The sixth book, The Winds of Winter, is currently being written.
The story of A Song of Ice and Fire takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos, with a history of thousands of years. The series is told in the third person by point of view (POV) characters, whose number reaches 31 by the fifth novel. Three stories become interwoven: the chronicling of a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the dormant cold supernatural Others dwelling beyond an immense wall of ice on Westeros’ northern border; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled daughter of a king murdered in a civil war shortly before her birth, to return to Westeros with her fire-breathing dragons and claim her rightful throne.
Drawing inspiration from historical events such as the English period of the Wars of the Roses, Martin defied the conventions of the high fantasy genre. The series received praise for its realism; it subdues magic in favor of battles and political intrigue. The first novel contains practically no magic at all, yet the presence of magic keeps growing for each book. Violence, sexuality and moral ambiguity are frequently displayed among a set of over a thousand named characters. Major characters are often killed off so that readers cannot rely on the supposed heroes to remain safe and sound. The multiple viewpoint structure allows characters to be explored from many sides so that the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. In contrast to an omniscient storyteller, this structure can present the reader with misleading information as it is slanted by each character’s own interpretation of events, rather than being a strictly factual presentation. A Song of Ice and Fire also received critical commentary for its diverse portrayal of women and religion.Game Of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire)
Book Description
A Storm of Swords is the third of seven planned novels in A Song of Ice and Fire, a fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin. It was first published on 8 August 2000 in the United Kingdom,[1] with a United States edition following in November 2000. Its publication was preceded by a novella called Path of the Dragon, which collects some of the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel into a single book.

At the time of its publication, A Storm of Swords was the longest novel in the series. It was so long that in the UK, Australia and Israel its paperback edition was split in half, Part 1 being published as Steel and Snow in June 2001 (with the one-volume cover) and Part 2 as Blood and Gold in August 2001 (with a specially-commissioned new cover). The same division was used in the Polish and Greek editions. In France, the decision was made to cut the novel into four separate volumes.

A Storm of Swords won the 2001 Locus Award,[2] the 2002 Geffen Award for Best Novel and was nominated for the 2001 Nebula Award for Best Novel.[2] It was the first novel in the series to be nominated for the Hugo Award, one of the two most prestigious awards in science fiction and fantasy publishing, although it lost to J. K. Rowling's novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.[2][3]

Meisha Merlin Publishing, which had previously issued limited, illustrated editions of both A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings, was planning to release a similar version for A Storm of Swords in two volumes; however, lengthy delays in the release of A Clash of Kings caused it to lose its publishing rights, which were picked up by Subterranean Press. This edition, illustrated by Charles Vess, was released in the summer of 2006.

A Storm of Swords is also the name of the second expansion to the board game A Game of Thrones, released in July 2006. Approximately the first half of the novel was adapted for television as the third season of the HBO show Game of Thrones,[4] while the second half became the basis for the series' fourth season,[5] and some elements for the series' fifth season.
Plot summary
"The Red Wedding" redirects here. For the television adaptation of the scene, see The Rains of Castamere.

A Storm of Swords picks up the story slightly before the end of its predecessor, A Clash of Kings. The Seven Kingdoms of Westeros are still in the grip of the War of the Five Kings,[6] wherein Robb Stark, Balon Greyjoy, Joffrey Baratheon, and Stannis Baratheon compete for the Iron Throne. Meanwhile, a large host of wildlings approach the Wall under the leadership of Mance Rayder, the self-proclaimed "King Beyond the Wall", with only the undermanned Night's Watch in opposition. Finally, Daenerys Targaryen approaches Pentos.
In the Seven Kingdoms
The North / The Riverlands

At Riverrun, Catelyn Stark offers the captive Jaime Lannister his freedom in exchange for Catelyn's daughters, Sansa and Arya, who Catelyn believes are held by the Lannisters in King's Landing. Jaime is sent south, escorted by Brienne of Tarth. Catelyn makes this deal without the approval of her son Robb, the King in the North, and is taken prisoner upon its discovery. Robb's army returns to Riverrun, having vanquished Tywin Lannister's armies in the Westerlands, and Robb reveals that he has married Jeyne Westerling, invalidating his promise to be wed to a daughter of House Frey. Jaime's release infuriates Lord Rickard Karstark, whose two sons Eddard and Torrhen had been killed by Jaime in battle; and in revenge, Karstark kills two young Lannister captives. To secure his authority and atone for these deaths (thus preventing the Lannisters from executing Stark prisoners), Robb executes Lord Rickard, losing the support of House Karstark as a result.

Jaime and Brienne are waylaid by the Brave Companions (now in the service of Roose Bolton) and taken to Harrenhal. Their captain Vargo Hoat orders Jaime's sword hand cut off, hoping the blame will be placed on Bolton, but Jaime is sent to King's Landing after he assures Lord Bolton he will absolve him to his father. Brienne is thrown into a bear pit by Hoat, and Jaime risks his own life to rescue her. He also tells her that he had killed the former King Aerys II Targaryen because he planned to burn the city and its inhabitants with wildfire to spite Robert Baratheon.

Robb's forces dwindle further at the Battle of Duskendale, wherein the eastern half of the Stark's armies, under the command of Roose Bolton, are ambushed by a joint army under Gregor Clegane and Lord Randyll Tarly. More losses are taken as the army retreats. Meanwhile, the Greyjoys now hold the Neck, having taken Moat Cailin, thus barring Robb from returning to his homeland. To recapture Moat Cailin from the Greyjoys, Robb relies on the support of the Freys. When Lord Hoster Tully dies, Catelyn's brother Edmure becomes Lord of Riverrun and Lord Paramount of the Trident. Robb gains renewed hope when he learns that Balon Greyjoy has died in a fall from a bridge, whereafter two of Balon's brothers, as well as his daughter Asha, vie to succeed him. The Freys propose a wedding between Edmure and Roslin Frey, one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters, to compensate for the loss of Robb's marriage.

Arya Stark and her friends encounter the "Brotherhood Without Banners", led by Lord Beric Dondarrion and the red priest Thoros of Myr: originally sent by Eddard Stark to put down the Lannister raids, the band now defends the smallfolk of the Riverlands. The group encounters Sandor Clegane, known as the Hound, who abandoned Joffrey during the Battle of the Blackwater, and offers him trial by battle, which he wins by killing Beric, but Thoros resurrects Beric thereafter. Arya is kidnapped by the Hound for ransom, and they proceed to Riverrun. On their journey, they discover that Robb and Catelyn will be at Edmure's wedding at the Frey bridge-stronghold The Twins, and change their destination accordingly.

Robb Stark's army reaches the Twins, where Walder agrees to forgive Robb if the wedding between Edmure and Roslin takes place. At the wedding celebration, the Boltons and Freys turn on the Stark soldiers, massacring the Stark forces. Robb is murdered by Roose Bolton, while Catelyn has her throat cut by Raymund Frey and her body is thrown into the adjacent river. Many of the northern lords are killed, and the survivors captured. Edmure, after consummating his marriage, is kept as a hostage. These events become known as the Red Wedding.

It is thereafter revealed that Roose Bolton engineered the defeat at Duskendale by sending Robb's soldiers into a trap set by the Lannisters, while holding his own forces in reserve, and arranging that all but his own forces would be slaughtered in rearguard. The combined effect was to kill off the forces of other Northern houses loyal to Robb while leaving the Bolton army unscathed. Tywin Lannister (the King's Hand and grandfather) rewards Roose by naming House Bolton the Great House of the North, in place of House Stark. The crown also legitimizes Roose's bastard son Ramsay Snow as a Bolton and the new Lord of Winterfell.

Arya and the Hound arrive at the outskirts of the castle as the Red Wedding is taking place; to keep her from running inside to her death, the Hound knocks Arya unconscious and takes her downriver. As she sleeps, Arya sees through the eyes of her long-missing direwolf, Nymeria, that her mother Catelyn is dead. Arya and the Hound encounter Gregor Clegane's men, by whom the Hound is wounded. His wound becomes infected, and Arya abandons him. She finds a ship from the Free City of Braavos, but the captain refuses her passage until she offers him the coin and password "Valar Morghulis", given to her by Jaqen H'ghar. The captain replies "Valar Dohaeris", and they set sail for Braavos.

In the epilogue, a re-animated but decayed and mutilated Catelyn, now under the name Lady Stoneheart, is leading the Brotherhood Without Banners, Beric having given his life to resurrect her, and she oversees the lynching of two Freys present at the Red Wedding.
The South / King's Landing

After the Battle of the Blackwater, Davos Seaworth is taken to Dragonstone by men loyal to King Stannis. Davos blames the red priestess Melisandre for Stannis's defeat, and is imprisoned for treason (Melisandre having foreseen his intention to assassinate her). At Melisandre's behest, Stannis releases Davos and asks him to serve as his Hand. With Stannis' cooperation, Melisandre has performed rituals to awaken "stone dragons", which she identifies as the great statues adjacent to the castle.

King's Landing welcomes the Tyrells as liberators, and King Joffrey sets aside his betrothal to Sansa Stark in favor of Margaery Tyrell. Sansa is soon compelled to marry Tyrion Lannister, who refuses to consummate the marriage against her will.

Word reaches King's Landing of the sudden death of Balon Greyjoy, followed by news of the Red Wedding. Joffrey gloats that he has "won" the war; whereas the governing Small Council is shocked to learn that Tywin secretly masterminded the Red Wedding. Tyrion warns his father that the defeated Northerners will not quietly submit to Bolton rule, but Tywin dismisses his warning. Later, Tyrion realizes that Joffrey sent the assassin who attempted to kill Bran Stark at Winterfell, and thus set the war in motion.

Margaery and Joffrey's wedding is held as planned, but during the ensuing festivities, King Joffrey is poisoned. Tyrion is accused of the murder by his sister Cersei Lannister and placed on trial. Sansa is smuggled out of the castle by the jester Dontos Hollard, and taken to Lord Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish, who has Dontos killed and admits culpability in Joffrey's death and Tyrion's framing, incriminating Margaery's grandmother Olenna Tyrell as well. Littlefinger and Sansa departs King's Landing for the Eyrie, Littlefinger scheming to marry Catelyn's sister Lysa Arryn with the blessing of the Small Council to gain the support of House Arryn.

Davos discovers a request by the Night's Watch for aid against Mance Rayder and the Others. Melisandre tries to persuade Stannis to sacrifice Edric Storm, a bastard son of Stannis' late brother King Robert Baratheon, to wake the dragons. Stannis is reluctant, though he uses Edric's blood in leeches to curse the three rival Kings. After Balon, Robb and Joffrey die, apparently proving the power of King's blood, Davos has Edric smuggled to safety. Stannis prepares to execute Davos for treason but is prevented when Davos shows Stannis the Night's Watch's plea.

Jaime and Brienne reach King's Landing to find that Joffrey's younger brother Tommen Baratheon will inherit the throne; Tyrion is on trial; and the Tyrell bannermen blame Brienne for Renly Baratheon's death. Jaime's severed right hand becomes infected, but he is healed by former maester Qyburn, earning Qyburn the admiration of Cersei. Jaime refuses to believe that Tyrion killed Joffrey, rejects Cersei's advances, and becomes Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, but refuses his father's offer of Casterly Rock, whereupon Tywin disinherits him. Jaime frees Brienne and gives her a sword reforged from Ice, Ned Stark's sword. He tells her to keep her oath to Catelyn, to find Arya and Sansa and return them home. Against Tyrion, Cersei recruits the spymaster Varys and Tyrion's lover, Shae. Tyrion is approached by Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne, who offers a trial by combat against Cersei's champion, Gregor Clegane, who he knows was responsible for the death of his sister Elia. Oberyn nearly emerges victorious, but is ultimately killed by Gregor, although the poison on Oberyn's spear leaves Gregor dying in agony. Tyrion is again condemned to death but is freed by Jaime and Varys. Jaime reveals that Tyrion's first wife Tysha was not a prostitute as Tywin told him, and genuinely loved Tyrion. Outraged, Tyrion swears revenge on Jaime, Cersei, and Tywin, and tells Jaime he murdered Joffrey and that Cersei took other lovers while he was Robb Stark's captive. During Tyrion's escape, he strangles Shae and kills Tywin in his privy before fleeing Westeros.

At the Eyrie, Littlefinger and Lysa are married, and Sansa remains hidden by pretending to be an illegitimate daughter of Littlefinger's, named Alayne Stone. Lysa reveals that Littlefinger had convinced her to poison Jon Arryn, her late husband, to prevent her son from being fostered to Stannis Baratheon, and to write to Catelyn that Arryn had been poisoned by the Lannisters, which was the catalyst for the events of A Game of Thrones. Lysa threatens to kill Sansa, thinking she is trying to seduce Littlefinger, but Littlefinger intervenes and, after revealing that he had only ever loved Catelyn, pushes Lysa to her death.
On the Wall

The detachment of the Night's Watch under Lord Commander Jeor Mormont awaits word from Qhorin Halfhand and Jon Snow at their forward base. The Watch are attacked by undead wights and the Others, suffering heavy casualties; but Samwell Tarly kills one of the Others with a blade of dragonglass. Some of the Watch mutiny and kill Mormont, but Sam escapes with the help of one of Craster's daughter-wives, Gilly, and they and the girl's newborn child approach the Wall, assisted by a strange figure riding an elk, whom Sam calls Coldhands. Among the dead are most of the Watch's senior leadership.

Bran Stark, his servant Hodor, Jojen and Meera Reed are guided north by Bran's dreams of a three-eyed crow. At the Wall, Sam guides them to Coldhands and returns to Castle Black, having sworn to keep Bran's survival secret even from Jon.

Jon convinces Mance that he is a deserter from the Night's Watch and learns that the Others are driving the wildlings south towards the Wall. Jon and his captor Ygritte also begin a sexual relationship. Mance seeks the legendary Horn of Winter to shatter the Wall. After climbing the Wall, the wildlings press Jon to murder a homeless man. When Jon refuses, the wildlings turn on him but Jon, with the assistance of Bran's direwolf Summer (Bran and company are hiding in a nearby abandoned tower), kills many of the wildlings and escapes to Castle Black. The approaching wildling army reaches Castle Black and assaults the Wall; but Jon takes command of the defenses and repels several assaults, during which Ygritte is slain. After that, Janos Slynt and Alliser Thorne imprison Jon for treachery and subsequently send him north of the Wall to kill Mance under a pretense of parley. As Jon is talking with Mance in the wildling camp, the army of King Stannis arrives, routing the Wildlings, and Mance is imprisoned. Melisandre believes the wildling invasion to portend the return of the Great Other, the sworn foe of her god R'hllor. Stannis offers to legitimize Jon and make him Lord of Winterfell in exchange for his support, but when his direwolf Ghost unexpectedly returns, Jon decides to decline Stannis' offer. Before he can inform Stannis, Jon is chosen by the Night's Watch as its new Lord Commander.
In the East

Heading for Pentos by sea, Daenerys Targaryen learns that large slave armies can be bought in the cities of Slaver's Bay, and exchanges one of her infant dragons for the entire host of the warrior-eunuch Unsullied. Upon payment, which includes Drogon (the largest and strongest of her dragons), Daenerys orders the Unsullied to turn on their former masters and sack the city. With the help of her maturing dragons, she frees all the slaves of Astapor. Daenerys' horde then conquers the slaver city of Yunkai; but the lords of neighbouring Meereen antagonize Daenerys by killing child slaves and burning the land to deny her resources. Consequently, Daenerys besieges the city to no avail.

Daenerys discovers two traitors in her camp: Ser Jorah Mormont, who had spied on her for Varys, informant to the late King Robert Baratheon, in exchange for a royal pardon; and Arstan Whitebeard, an alias of Ser Barristan Selmy, the humiliated former Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard. Daenerys offers both men the chance to make amends by sneaking into Meereen to free the slaves and start an uprising. Meereen soon falls and, in retaliation for the murdered child slaves, Daenerys has the city's rulers put to death. Selmy asks for Daenerys' forgiveness and becomes Lord Commander of her Queensguard while Jorah, who refuses to admit any wrong, is banished. When Daenerys learns that the council she left in Astapor has been overthrown, she decides to rule Meereen in practice for the rule of Westeros.
Characters
The tale is told through the eyes of ten main characters, plus a one-off prologue POV and a one-off epilogue POV character, for a total of 12 narrators.
    Prologue: Chett, a brother and hound-keeper of the Night's Watch
    Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer
    Jon Snow, bastard son of Eddard Stark, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    Catelyn Stark, of House Tully, widow of Lord Eddard Stark
    Tyrion Lannister, youngest son of Tywin Lannister, a dwarf, brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister
    Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark
    Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark
    Bran Stark, son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark, heir to Winterfell and the North
    Samwell Tarly, cowardly son of Lord Randyll Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    Davos Seaworth, a smuggler turned knight in the service of King Stannis Baratheon
    Daenerys Targaryen, exiled Queen of Westeros, of the Targaryen dynasty
    Epilogue: Merrett Frey, a member of the numerous Frey family.
Development
On October 6, 2009, Martin noted on his blog that his manuscript for A Storm of Swords had been 1521 pages in length;[7] the initial printed hardcover came in at 992 pages.[8] Martin did not write the Red Wedding chapters until he had completed every other chapter of the book, as he felt it was "the hardest thing I ever wrote" and that he would rather delay writing until absolutely necessary. In contrast, he referred to the chapter of Joffrey's fatal wedding as "easy and fun to write" but that he nevertheless tried to instill empathy for the painful demise of this very unpopular character and "bring home the point that this, too, was a human being who was scared and terrified and then dead".[9][10]
Editions

Foreign language editions
    Bulgarian: Бард: "Вихър от Мечове"
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Tempesta d'espases" "Storm of swords"
    Chinese: 重庆出版社(2007): "冰雨的风暴" ("Storm of Freezing Rain").
    Czech: Talpress: "Bouře mečů" ("Storm of Swords")
    Danish: Gyldendal: "En Storm af Sværd" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Dutch: Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Een storm van zwaarden" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Estonian: Two volumes, hardcover, Varrak (2010, 2011): "Mõõkade maru. Teras ja lumi" (A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow"), "Mõõkade maru. Veri ja kuld" ("A Storm of Swords: Blood and Gold")
    Finnish: Kirjava: "Miekkamyrsky" ("Swordstorm")
    French: Four volumes (Hardcover: Pygmalion (2001, 2002, 2003); paperback: J'ai Lu (2003, 2004)): "Les brigands" (hardcover) / "Intrigues à Port-Réal" (paperback), "L'épée de feu", "Les noces pourpres", "La loi du régicide" ("The Outlaws/Intrigues in King's Landing", "The Sword of Fire", "The Crimson Wedding", "The Law of the Kingslayer".)
    German: Single volume, Fantasy Productions (2005): "Schwertgewitter" ("Sword Storm"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2001, 2002): "Sturm der Schwerter", "Die Königin der Drachen" ("Storm of Swords", "The Queen of Dragons").
    Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Παγωμένες Λεπίδες", "Ματωμένο Χρυσάφι" ("Frozen Blades","Bloody Gold")
    Hebrew: "סופת החרבות חלק א - פלדה ושלג, סופת החרבות חלק ב - דם וזהב" ("Storm of swords - Steel and snow","Storm of swords - blood and gold")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Kardok vihara” ("Storm of Swords")
    Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2002, 2003, 2004): "Tempesta di spade", "I fiumi della guerra", "Il Portale delle Tenebre" ("A Storm of Swords", "The Rivers of War", "The Gate of Darkness").
    Japanese: Three volumes, hardcover : Hayakawa (2006-7), paperback : Hayakawa (2012): "剣嵐の大地" ("The Land of the Sword Storm") I, II and III
    Korean: Eun Haeng Namu Publishing Co. : "성검의 폭풍” ("Storm of Holy Swords")
    Lithuanian: Alma Littera "Kardų audra" ("A Storm of Swords").
    Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta (2013): "Stål og snø: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 1", "Blod og Gull: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 2" ("Steel and Snow: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 1, Blood and Gold: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 2)"
    Polish: Two volumes,Zysk i S-ka: "Nawałnica mieczy:Stal i Śnieg (I)", "Nawałnica mieczy: Krew i Złoto(II)" (A Storm of Swords:Steel and Snow", "A Storm of Swords:Blood and Gold")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("The Storm of Swords")
    European Portuguese: Two Volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("A Storm of Swords"), "A Glória dos Traidores" ("The Betrayer's Glory")
    Romanian: Nemira: "Iureșul săbiilor"
    Russian: AST: "Буря мечей" ("Storm of Swords").
    Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Олуја мачева Део први: Челик и снег"(A Storm of Swords First part: "Steel and snow"), "Олуја мачева Део други: Крв и Злато" (A Storm of Swords Second part: "Blood and Gold" )
    Slovenian: Vihra mečev ("A Storm of Swords")
    Spanish: Two volumes, Gilgamesh (2005): "Tormenta de espadas I", "Tormenta de espadas II" ("Storm of Swords I", "Storm of Swords II").
    Swedish: Forum: "Svärdets makt" ("The Sword's Power")
    Turkish: Two volumes, Epsilon Yayınevi: "Buz ve Ateşin Şarkısı III: Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım I & Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım II" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Ukrainian: KM Publishing (2015): "Буря мечів" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Vietnamese: Three Volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3A: Sự trở lại của Ngoại nhân", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3B: Nước mắt Sói Tuyết", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3C: Tử Hôn". ("Game of Thrones 3A: Return of the Others", "Game of Thrones 3B: Tears of Direwolf", "Game of Thrones 3C: Purple Wedding")

Reception

Publishers Weekly said the third volume was "one of the more rewarding examples of gigantism in contemporary fantasy. [...] The complexity of characters such as Daenerys, Arya and the Kingslayer will keep readers turning even the vast number of pages contained in this volume, for the author, like Tolkien or Jordan, makes us care about their fates. Those two fantasy greats are also evoked by Martin's ability to convey such sensual experiences as the heat of wildfire, the chill of ice, the smell of the sea and the sheer gargantuan indigestibility of the medieval banquet at its most excessive. Perhaps this saga doesn't go as far beyond the previous bounds of high fantasy as some claim, but for most readers it certainly goes far enough to command their attention."[11]

Martin was nominated for the 2001 Hugo Award for Best Novel, but lost to J. K. Rowling for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.[2][3] Afterwards he made this comment about his fans: "Eat your heart out, Rowling. Maybe you have billions of dollars and my Hugo, but you don't have readers like these."[12]
Awards and nominations
A Feast for Crows is the fourth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. The novel was first published on 17 October 2005 in the United Kingdom,[1] with a United States edition following on 8 November 2005.[2]

In May 2005, Martin announced that the "sheer size" of his still-unfinished manuscript for A Feast for Crows had led him and his publishers to split the narrative into two books.[3] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location, resulting in "two novels taking place simultaneously" with different casts of characters.[3] A Feast for Crows was published months later, and the concurrent novel A Dance with Dragons was released on July 12, 2011.[4] Martin also noted that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels.[3]

A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the sequence to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list,[5] a feat among fantasy writers only previously achieved by Robert Jordan[6][7][8][9][10] and Neil Gaiman.[11] In 2006 the novel was nominated for the Hugo Award, the Locus Award, and the British Fantasy Society Award.[12] It has since been adapted, along with A Dance With Dragons, for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, though elements of the novel appeared in the series' fourth and sixth seasons.
Plot summary
The War of the Five Kings is slowly coming to its end. Stannis Baratheon has gone to the aid of the Wall, where Jon Snow has become the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. King Tommen Baratheon, Joffrey's eight-year-old brother, now rules in King's Landing under his mother, Cersei Lannister. Brienne, the Maid of Tarth, is on a mission to find Sansa Stark, aided by Jaime Lannister. Sansa Stark is hiding in the Vale, protected by Petyr Baelish, who has murdered his wife Lysa Arryn and named himself Protector of the Vale and guardian of eight-year-old Lord Robert Arryn.
In the Seven Kingdoms
Prologue in Oldtown

Pate, a young apprentice at the Citadel in Oldtown, is studying to become a maester. He has stolen an important key to a depository of books and records at the request of a stranger in exchange for a reward; after turning over the key and receiving the reward, he dies abruptly.
King's Landing

Following the death and funeral of Tywin Lannister, Cersei's reign is marked by rampant cronyism, and her councils staffed with incompetent loyalists. She also disregards accurate advice by her uncle Kevan Lannister and her brother Jaime, alienating them both. Making matters worse is Cersei's increasing distrust of the Tyrells, particularly Margaery, whom Cersei implicates in a prophecy that Cersei herself will see her children crowned but all of them will die before her.

Her incompetent management raises the kingdom's debts to the Iron Bank of Braavos and the Faith of the Seven. When Cersei dismisses its representatives, the Iron Bank refuses to grant new loans and demands immediate repayment, nearly crippling the economy of Westeros. To settle the crown's debts to the Faith of the Seven, Cersei permits the restoration of that religion's military order, the Faith Militant, ignoring the danger to her own power. Hoping to weaken the Tyrells, Cersei dispatches Ser Loras Tyrell to besiege Stannis Baratheon's forces on Dragonstone; as a result, almost a thousand loyalists are killed, and Ser Loras is gravely injured. A scheme to falsely have the Faith put Margaery on trial for adultery backfires when the religious leadership imprisons Cersei herself on similar (correct) charges.
Riverlands

After a series of disagreements, Cersei dispatches Jaime to the Riverlands to re-establish control. He negotiates with Brynden "the Blackfish" Tully to surrender Riverrun in exchange for Edmure Tully's life. Though the siege ends bloodlessly, Brynden escapes, to Jaime's fury. He then receives word that Cersei, who has been imprisoned, wants him to defend her in a trial by combat; but learns that Tyrion's accusation of Lancel Lannister and Cersei was true (Lancel having been King Robert's true killer). Disgusted by the excessive loss of life and Cersei's paranoia, Jaime abandons her to her fate.

Brienne of Tarth's quest for Sansa leads her all over the Riverlands, where she observes the destruction caused by the war, and acquires Podrick Payne, former squire to Tyrion Lannister. She meets Ser Hyle, a knight whom she has met before, and Lord Randyll Tarly (Samwell's father), who insults her despite Ser Hyle's praise of her. Eventually she is captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners and sentenced to death by Catelyn Stark, who was resurrected three days after death by Beric Dondarrion, though at the cost of Dondarrion's life, and who has now assumed the name Lady Stoneheart. Catelyn offers to let her live if she agrees to kill Jaime Lannister (whom she believes played a role in Robb's death). When Brienne refuses to decide, she and some of her companions are sentenced to be hanged, at which she screams an undisclosed word. The author later revealed that the word was "sword", in response to Catelyn's ultimatum of "Sword or noose", which offered either Brienne's continued service to Catelyn herself, or hanging.
The Vale

In the Eyrie, Sansa poses as Petyr's daughter Alayne: befriending young Robert Arryn, managing the household, and receiving informal training in royal politics. During this time, Petyr appears to be carefully manipulating his murdered wife's former bannermen and securing control of the Protectorship of the Vale. He eventually reveals that he has betrothed Sansa to Harrold Hardyng, the next in line to Robert's title; when the sickly Robert dies, Petyr intends to reveal Sansa's identity and claim her family stronghold of Winterfell in her name.
Iron Islands

On the Iron Islands, Aeron Damphair calls a Kingsmoot to identify Balon Greyjoy's successor as king of the Iron Islands. Hotly contested by Balon's brother Victarion Greyjoy and daughter Asha Greyjoy, eventually his brother Euron Greyjoy is chosen as king for his promise to control dragons with an enchanted horn he possesses. The fleet of the Iron Men captures the Shield Islands at the mouth of the river Mander, threatening House Tyrell's seat at Highgarden. Victarion estimates that when the Redwyne fleet returns from the siege at Dragonstone it will retake the islands; and when Euron sends him east to woo Daenerys Targaryen on his behalf, to thus gain a claim to the Iron Throne, Victarion decides to woo her for himself instead.
Dorne

In Dorne, Doran Martell is confronted by three of his brother Oberyn's daughters, who want vengeance for their father's death. Because they are inciting the commonfolk, Doran has them imprisoned in the palace.

A bold attempt by Doran's daughter Arianne Martell and her lover, Ser Arys Oakheart of the Kingsguard, to crown Doran's ward Myrcella Baratheon as queen of Westeros under Dornish law, is thwarted by Doran. In the confusion, one of Arianne's co-conspirators, the knight Gerold "Darkstar" Dayne, attempts to kill Myrcella; she survives but her face is scarred, and Ser Arys is killed. This strains the new Dornish alliance with House Lannister and the Iron Throne. To his daughter, Doran reveals that her brother Quentyn has gone east to bring back "Fire and Blood".
In the East

Arriving in Braavos, Arya Stark finds her way to the House of Black and White, a temple associated with the assassins known as the Faceless Men. As a novice there, Arya attempts to master their belief that Faceless Men have no true identity by throwing all her treasures into the water (secretly keeping her sword, Needle) and posing as a girl called "Cat of the Canals". Her former identity asserts itself in the form of wolf dreams, and also when she kills Dareon, sworn brother of Samwell Tarly, for abandoning the Night's Watch. Having confessed this death, she is given a glass of warm milk as punishment. She wakes up the following morning blind.

Jon Snow has ordered Samwell Tarly to sail to the Citadel in Oldtown (via Braavos), to research the Others and become a Maester. Sam is accompanied by aging Maester Aemon, the wildling mother Gilly, her newborn baby, and sworn brother Dareon. The voyage across the Narrow Sea is underway before Sam realizes Jon swapped the sons of Gilly and Mance Rayder, to protect the Wildling "prince" from sacrifice by the priestess Melisandre. Aemon becomes sick and the party wait in Braavos for his health to improve. After a Summer Islander tells Aemon about the Targaryen dragons, Aemon decides that Daenerys has come to fulfill a prophecy. He dies shortly after they leave Braavos.

At the end of the novel, Samwell arrives at the Citadel to begin his training. He meets a fellow apprentice who introduces himself as Pate, connecting the prologue to the narrative.
Characters

The story is narrated from the point of view of 12 characters and a one-off prologue point of view. Unlike its predecessors, the fourth novel follows numerous minor characters as well.

    Prologue: Pate, a novice of the Citadel in Oldtown
    Cersei Lannister, The Queen Regent
    Ser Jaime Lannister, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard
    Brienne, Maid of Tarth, a young warrior woman searching for Sansa and Arya Stark
    Sansa Stark, pretending to be Petyr Baelish's daughter "Alayne Stone" (her later chapters are titled as such)
    Arya Stark, later referred to as "Cat of the Canals", beginning her training at the Temple of Him of Many Faces in the free city of Braavos
    Samwell Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    In the Iron Islands:
        The Prophet, The Drowned Man: Aeron "Damphair" Greyjoy, Self-proclaimed servant of the Drowned god, youngest of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers
        The Kraken's Daughter: Princess Asha Greyjoy, daughter of Late King Balon of the Iron Islands
        The Iron Captain, The Reaver: Prince Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron fleet, one of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers
    In Dorne:
        The Captain of Guards: Areo Hotah, Captain of the Guards to Prince Doran Martell of Dorne
        The Soiled Knight: Ser Arys Oakheart of the Kingsguard
        The Queenmaker, The Princess in the Tower: Arianne Martell, daughter of Prince Doran and heir to Dorne

Editions

Foreign-language editions

    Bulgarian: Бард: "Пир за Врани"
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Festí de corbs" ("Feast of crows")
    Chinese (Simplified): 重庆出版社(2008): "群鸦的盛宴" ("Feast for Crows").
    Chinese (Traditional): 高寶國際(2006): "群鴉盛宴" ("Feast for Crows").
    Croatian: "Gozba vrana" ("Crows' Feast")
    Czech: Talpress; "Hostina pro vrány" ("Feast for Crows")
    Danish: Kragernes rige ("The Kingdom of the Crows")
    Dutch: Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Een feestmaal voor kraaien" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Estonian: "Vareste pidusöök" ("Feast of Crows")
    Finnish: "Korppien kestit" ("Feast of Crows")
    French: Three Volumes, Hardcover: Pygmalion (2006-...): "Le chaos", "Les sables de Dorne", "Un Festin pour les Corbeaux" ("Chaos", "The Sands of Dorne", "A Feast For Crows").
    German: Single volume, Fantasy Productions (2006): "Krähenfest" ("Crow's Feast", to be released). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2006): "Zeit der Krähen", "Die dunkle Königin" ("Time of the Crows", "The Dark Queen").
    Greek: Anubis: "Βορά Ορνίων" ("Prey of Vultures")
    Hebrew: "משתה לעורבים א\ב" ("Feast for Crows pts. A/B")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Varjak lakomája" ("Feast of Crows")
    Italian: Two volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (Hardcover 2006, 2007 - Paperback 2007, 2008): "Il dominio della regina", "L'ombra della profezia" ("The Rule of the Queen", "The Shadow of the Prophecy").
    Japanese: Two volumes, hardcover : Hayakawa (2008), paperback : Hayakawa (2013): "乱鴉の饗宴" ("Feast of the War Crows") I and II
    Korean: Eun Haeng Namu Publishing Co. :"까마귀의 향연" ("Feast for Crows")
    Lithuanian: Alma Littera "Varnų puota" ("Crows' Feast")
    Norwegian: Two volumes, "Kråkenes gilde" (The Crows' Feast), "Jern og sand" (Iron and Sand)
    Polish: Two volumes, Zysk i S-ka: "Uczta dla wron: Cienie Śmierci", "Uczta dla wron: Sieć Spisków" ("A Feast for Crows: Shadows of Death", "A Feast for Crows: Web of Intrigues")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "O Festim dos Corvos" ("The Crows Feast")
    European Portuguese: Two volumes, Saída de Emergência: "O Festim de Corvos" ("A Feast for Crows"), "O Mar de Ferro" ("The Iron Sea")
    Romanian: Paperback 2009, Harcover 2011: "Festinul ciorilor" ("The Crows' Feast")
    Russian: AST: "Пир стервятников" ("Vultures' Feast").
    Serbian: Two Volumes, Лагуна: "Гозба за вране Део први", "Гозба за вране Део други" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Slovenian: Vranja gostija ("A Feast for Crows")
    Spanish: Gigamesh (2007): "Festín de Cuervos" ("Feast for Crows")
    Swedish: Forum bokförlag: "Kråkornas fest" ("The Crows' Feast")
    Turkish: Two volumes, Epsilon Yayınevi: "Buz ve Ateşin Şarkısı IV: Kargaların Ziyafeti - Kısım I & Kargaların Ziyafeti - Kısım II" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Ukrainian: KM Publishing (2016): "Бенкет круків" ("The Feast of Crows")
    Vietnamese: Two Volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 4A: Tiệc Quạ đen", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 4B: Lời Tiền tri". ("Game of Thrones 4A: A Feast of Crows", "Game of Thrones 4B: The Prophecy")

Publication

Martin released the first four "Iron Islands" chapters of A Feast for Crows as a novella called Arms of the Kraken, published in the 305th edition of Dragon magazine, published in May 2003.[13] Another chapbook featuring three Daenerys chapters was published for BookExpo 2005 although, following the geographical division of the book, these chapters were subsequently moved into the fifth volume in the series, A Dance with Dragons.

Martin originally planned for the fourth book to be called A Dance with Dragons with the story picking up five years after the events of A Storm of Swords (primarily to advance the ages of the younger characters). However, during the writing process it was discovered that this was leading to an overreliance on flashbacks to fill in the gap. After twelve months or so of working on the book, Martin decided to abandon much of what had previously been written and start again, this time picking up immediately after the end of A Storm of Swords. He announced this decision, along with the new title A Feast for Crows, at Worldcon in Philadelphia on September 1, 2001. He also announced that A Dance with Dragons would now be the fifth book in the sequence.[14]

In May 2005 Martin announced that his manuscript for A Feast for Crows had hit 1527 completed pages but still remained unfinished, with "another hundred or so pages of roughs and incomplete chapters, as well as other chapters sketched out but entirely unwritten."[3] As the size of the manuscript for 2000's A Storm of Swords, his previous novel, had been a problem for publishers around the world at 1521 pages, Martin and his publishers had decided to split the narrative planned for A Feast for Crows into two books.[3] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location:

    It was my feeling ... that we were better off telling all the story for half the characters, rather than half the story for all the characters. Cutting the novel in half would have produced two half-novels; our approach will produce two novels taking place simultaneously, but set hundreds or even thousands of miles apart, and involving different casts of characters (with some overlap).[3]

Martin noted that A Feast for Crows would focus on "Westeros, King's Landing, the riverlands, Dorne, and the Iron Islands," and that the next novel, A Dance with Dragons, would cover "events in the east and north."[3] Martin also added that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels.[3] A Feast for Crows was published months later on 17 October 2005,[1] over five years after the previous volume in the series, A Storm of Swords.[15] The parallel novel A Dance with Dragons was released on July 12, 2011.[4]
Release details

    2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224743-7, Pub date 17 October 2005, hardback
    2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-722463-X, Pub date ? ? 2005, hardback (presentation edition)
    2005, US, Spectra Books ISBN 0-553-80150-3, Pub date 8 November 2005, hardback
    2006, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224742-9, Pub date 25 April 2006, paperback

Reception

Though A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the sequence to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list,[5] it received more negative reviews in comparison with the previous novels in the series. Martin's decision to halve the plot in terms of character and location was highly controversial; many critics felt that this novel consisted of characters that people were less interested in. Publishers Weekly said, "Long-awaited doesn't begin to describe this fourth installment in bestseller Martin's staggeringly epic Song of Ice and Fire. [...]. This is not Act I Scene 4 but Act II Scene 1, laying groundwork more than advancing the plot, and it sorely misses its other half. The slim pickings here are tasty, but in no way satisfying."[16] Salon.com's Andrew Leonard said in 2011, "I don't care how good a writer you are: If you subtract your three strongest characters from your tale, you severely undermine the basis for why readers fell under your spell in the first place. It didn't work. But there was also a sense in A Feast of Crows that Martin had lost his way. The characters whose stories he did tell wandered back and forth across a landscape devastated by war and oncoming winter, but didn't seem to be headed anywhere in particular."[17] Remy Verhoeve of The Huffington Post noted in their 2011 A Dance with Dragons review that the fifth volume had to "repair some of the damage done by A Feast for Crows, which frankly felt as if it was written by a ghost writer at times." Both books had "the same structural problems", being "sprawling and incoherent", and in her opinion Feast has the less interesting characters.[18] The Atlantic's Rachael Brown said in their A Dance With Dragons review that Feast was "bleak and plodding" and "sorely missed" Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow.[19]
his article is about the novel. For the episode of the TV series, see The Dance of Dragons.
A Dance with Dragons A Dance With Dragons US.jpg
Author 	George R. R. Martin
Cover artist 	Larry Rostant
Country 	United States
Language 	English
Series 	A Song of Ice and Fire
Genre 	Fantasy
Published 	July 12, 2011
Publisher 	Voyager Books (UK)
Bantam Spectra (US)[1][2]
Media type 	Print (hardback & paperback)
Pages 	1040 (US Hardcover)
Award 	Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2012)
ISBN 	978-0553801477
OCLC 	191922936
Dewey Decimal
	813/.54
LC Class 	PS3563.A7239 D36 2011
Preceded by 	A Feast for Crows
Followed by 	The Winds of Winter (forthcoming)

A Dance with Dragons is the fifth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. In some areas the paperback edition was published in two parts titled Dreams and Dust and After the Feast. It was the first novel in the series to be published following the commencement of the HBO series adaptation, Game of Thrones, and runs to 1,040 pages.

On March 3, 2011, publishing imprint Bantam Spectra announced that the novel would be released on July 12, 2011.[1] Martin delivered the manuscript to his editor on April 27, 2011;[3] however, as early as 2006, Martin made sample chapters available on his website[4][5][6] and at Amazon.co.uk.[7] Additionally, the German branch of Amazon.com (Amazon.de) released a reported 180 copies two weeks early by mistake.[8] The US hardcover was officially published on July 12, 2011, having gone back to press for six printings (totaling more than 650,000 copies) prior to the 1,000+ page novel being available; 298,000 copies in print, digital, and audio formats were sold that first day alone, becoming publishing giant Random House's biggest book of 2011 and a runaway bestseller. The book was the second in the series to debut at the #1 position on the New York Times Best Seller list.[9] A few weeks after publication, A Dance with Dragons went on to be #1 on both Publishers Weekly and USA Today Bestsellers lists.

The novel, along with A Feast for Crows, has been adapted for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, although elements of the book have also appeared in the series' third, fourth and sixth seasons.
Plot summary
At the Wall

Would-be king Stannis Baratheon and his forces occupy the Wall as Jon Snow, the newly elected 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, sends Samwell Tarly to the Citadel in Oldtown to be trained as a Maester. Sam is accompanied by the ancient Maester Aemon, the wildling girl Gilly, and the newborn son of the wildling leader Mance Rayder, whom Jon has switched with Gilly's baby to save the wildling "prince" from sacrifice by Stannis' red priestess Melisandre. Janos Slynt refuses to acknowledge Jon's authority, and after three public warnings, Jon personally beheads Slynt for disobedience. Though intended to solidify Jon's new position as Lord Commander, it only sows more discord with Slynt's faction. Stannis executes Mance for refusing to submit to him. Jon brokers a truce with Tormund Giantsbane, the leader of the surviving wildlings, allowing them through the Wall and into Westeros in exchange for wildling assistance in defending the Wall against the Others. This creates further unrest among the brothers of the Night's Watch, who have considered the wildlings their enemies for centuries.

Tycho Nestoris, a representative of the Iron Bank of Braavos, arrives at the Wall seeking Stannis, who has already marched south with his army. The Iron Bank now supports Stannis' claim to the Iron Throne since the regent Cersei Lannister has refused to repay the crown's debts. Jon negotiates a loan with which the Night's Watch can buy food to survive the winter. After recurring visions, Melisandre warns Jon that he is in danger from enemies within the Watch, and that a Northern girl is in trouble. Mance is revealed to be alive thanks to Melisandre's magical trickery, and he is sent to Winterfell to rescue the girl, who Jon believes is his half-sister, Arya Stark. However, the girl in Melisandre's visions, fleeing to the Wall, turns out to be Alys Karstark, daughter of the deceased Lord Rickard Karstark. She reveals Rickard's uncle Arnolf Karstark, Castellan of Karhold, declared for Stannis in the hope her brother Harrion Karstark, a hostage of the Lannisters, would be executed. Arnolf intends to force Alys to marry his son Cregan so his branch of the family can take control of Karhold, and also plans to betray Stannis to the Boltons. When Cregan arrives at the Wall, Jon imprisons him and arranges Alys' marriage to a Wildling leader Sigorn, the Magnar of Thenn, partially to aid the Wildlings' integration into the North.

Jon receives a taunting letter from Ramsay Bolton, who claims to have crushed Stannis' army at Winterfell. Ramsay demands that Jon hand over to him Stannis' wife and daughter or be killed, and Ramsay also insists that he will deliver Theon Greyjoy and Arya, neither of whom Jon has seen in years. Jon decides that he will seek out and kill Ramsay himself, asking for volunteers from the Watch to accompany him. Melisandre's prediction comes true as Jon is stabbed by Bowen Marsh and several of his own men.

Meanwhile, Bran Stark's search for the "Three-Eyed Crow" beyond the Wall leads him to the last surviving Children of the Forest, the non-human natives of Westeros. In the Children's cave, Bran and his companions meet the Three-Eyed Crow—the last "greenseer"—an ancient man intertwined with the roots of a weirwood tree. Using greensight, Bran witnesses his father Ned Stark at Winterfell's godswood in the past, and communicates with Theon Greyjoy at the same location in the present.
Across the Narrow Sea
In the Free Cities

Having killed his father Tywin, Tyrion Lannister is smuggled to Pentos by Varys, where he is sheltered by Illyrio Mopatis. Tyrion is sent south with a party to aid Daenerys Targaryen in claiming the Iron Throne; on the journey, it is revealed that Varys and Illyrio have hidden the presumed dead Aegon Targaryen, son of the late Prince Rhaegar, to eventually install him as king of Westeros. In the intervening years, they have made a contract with the Golden Company, the largest and most skilled mercenary army in the Free Cities. Tyrion advises young Aegon that Daenerys will not respect him unless he has made his conquests first, and persuades Aegon to launch an early invasion of the Seven Kingdoms, without the aid of Daenerys and her dragons. After traveling with Aegon across Essos, Tyrion is kidnapped by Jorah Mormont, who intends to deliver him to Daenerys as a means to get back into her favor. Jorah, Tyrion, and a female dwarf named Penny are shipwrecked and sold by slavers to a Yunkish merchant. At Meereen, Tyrion escapes in the mass confusion of the plague ravaging the Yunkish army, joins the Second Sons mercenary group, and secures their support for Daenerys.

In Braavos, Arya is an acolyte of the guild of assassins known as the Faceless Men. Temporarily afflicted with blindness at their hands, she develops her sense of hearing, and realizes that she can "see" through cats the same way she could with her pet direwolf, Nymeria. After successfully fending off an attack by the master of the temple with a stick sword, Arya's sight is restored. She is magically given the face of one of the temple petitioners, who come there seeking a quiet death, and is tasked with assassinating a corrupt merchant. After doing so, Arya is declared an apprentice of the Faceless Men, to be sent to another assassin to continue her training.
Slaver's Bay

In the far east, Daenerys has conquered the city of Meereen, but struggles to maintain peace within the city while also trying to prevent military defeat from external forces. A plague known as the bloody flux or "pale mare" ravages the city. Daenerys' dragons have become increasingly dangerous in their maturity, and she reluctantly confines them in a dungeon for the safety of her people. Drogon, the largest, evades capture and flies off. Despite her sexual relationship with the mercenary Daario Naharis, Daenerys marries the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq to secure an alliance that will hopefully appease the violent Meereenese resistance group called the Sons of the Harpy. At Hizdahr's insistence, she reopens the fighting pits as a gesture of good will to the citizens, but the noise and carnage attract Drogon. Two hundred people are trampled in the resulting panic or killed by the dragon, at which point Daenerys climbs on Drogon to calm him. He flies off with a helpless Daenerys in tow. Hizdahr is soon implicated in an attempt to poison Daenerys at the pits, and her advisor Barristan Selmy removes Hizdahr from power and prepares for battle with the armies outside Meereen. Hoping to prove his prowess to Daenerys by riding one of her remaining dragons, the Dornish prince Quentyn Martell is killed in the attempt, and both dragons are unleashed upon the city. Drogon flies Daenerys to the Dothraki Sea and leaves her stranded. She encounters the khalasar of Khal Jhaqo, a former subordinate to her late husband Khal Drogo, who betrayed her after Drogo's death. Meanwhile, Theon's uncle Victarion Greyjoy sails for Meereen, intending to fight off the slavers' alliance besieging the city and then marry Daenerys. He plans to use her dragons to overthrow his brother, King Euron.
In the Seven Kingdoms
The North

In the North, Stannis Baratheon has installed himself at the Wall and attempts to win the support of the northmen; the Lannisters have installed Roose Bolton as Warden of the North; and much of the west coast is under occupation by the Ironborn. Plotting against Stannis, the Karstarks advise him to march on House Bolton's stronghold, the Dreadfort, where the Boltons and Karstarks have laid a trap for him. On the advice of Jon Snow, Stannis instead acquires the support of the Northern hill clans and captures Deepwood Motte from Asha Greyjoy, whereupon House Glover and House Mormont join Stannis' army.

Lord Wyman Manderly pretends to execute Davos Seaworth to ensure the release of his heir Wylis from Lannister captivity. When Wylis is freed, in retribution for the murder of Wyman's other son, Wendel, at the Red Wedding, the Manderlys are heavily implied to discreetly murder the three Freys who returned his bones, putting them in pies to be fed to their kin. The Manderlys and other Northern vassals intend to feign submission to the Boltons, Freys and Lannisters while plotting revenge. Revealing to Davos that young Rickon Stark is in hiding on the remote island of Skagos, Manderly pledges the allegiance of his forces to Stannis if the famed smuggler Davos can retrieve Rickon and unite the Starks' supporters around him.

Theon is revealed to be a prisoner in the dungeon of the Dreadfort, mutilated and driven nearly insane by torture at Ramsay's hands. Renamed "Reek" by Ramsay and kept like a dog, Theon is terrified of the sadistic Ramsay. Ramsay's father Roose arrives with "Arya Stark", whom Reek recognizes as Sansa Stark's friend Jeyne Poole. Ramsay and the false Arya are wed at Winterfell, with Reek forced to assume his previous identity of Theon to give away the bride and help reassure the North that Jeyne is Arya. After the wedding, Ramsay repeatedly abuses Jeyne physically and sexually. Several murders in the castle increase the already high tensions between House Frey and the northern Houses present, with Roose and his vassals desperately trying to keep the peace. He is finally forced to send the Frey and Manderly forces out of Winterfell after a confrontation between them leads to multiple deaths. In Winterfell's godswood, Reek begs for forgiveness and hears Bran's voice calling him "Theon", which restores his sanity. He is approached by a disguised Mance and compelled to help him free the false Arya, but Mance and his spearwives are left behind when the alarm is raised. Theon and Jeyne escape by leaping from the castle wall into the snow, and are then captured by Stannis' forces nearby under Mors Umber. Theon is reunited with his sister Asha, who does not initially recognize him. Stannis decides to confront the Boltons at Winterfell, but his army becomes snowbound.
The Stormlands

Tyrion convinces Aegon that Daenerys would rather learn of her nephew from his conquest than by his demanding recognition. Aegon, his guardian Jon Connington, and the Golden Company, capture four castles with little resistance, including the Connington ancestral seat of Griffin's Roost, with the intention of marching on Storm's End, the seat of House Baratheon. Meanwhile, Connington is secretly succumbing to the infectious disease "greyscale".
Dorne

Ser Balon Swann of the Kingsguard presents the skull of Gregor Clegane to Prince Doran Martell and his court as justice for the murder of Doran's sister Elia. Doran agrees that Myrcella Baratheon may return to the Westerosi capital King's Landing with her betrothed, his son Prince Trystane, but reveals to his family that Cersei intends to murder Trystane. Doran summons the three eldest of the 'Sand Snakes', his late brother Oberyn's bastard daughters, and sets each a task: Obara Sand to distract Ser Balon by leading his hunt for Ser Gerold Dayne, the knight who previously tried to kill Myrcella; Nymeria Sand to assume the seat offered to Dorne on the Small Council; and Tyene Sand to infiltrate the Great Sept of Baelor and ingratiate herself with the High Septon.
Riverlands

Having negotiated the surrender of Riverrun, Jaime Lannister offers peace to House Blackwood, the last of Robb Stark's allies still at arms, which Lord Tytos Blackwood agrees to, giving one of his sons Hoster as a hostage. The Stark-Lannister war in the Riverlands is nominally over, but brigands holding no allegiance now roam most of the broken countryside, and Brynden "The Blackfish" Tully is still missing. Jaime sets about restoring order, and follows when Brienne of Tarth tells him that she has found the missing Sansa Stark, who she claims is in danger from Sandor Clegane.
King's Landing

In order to gain release from her imprisonment, the dowager queen Cersei confesses to several of the lesser charges against her, but does not confess to having murdered her husband King Robert Baratheon and many others, nor that her children are the product of incest. As a condition of her release, she is stripped naked and forced to march under escort from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep. Cersei tries to maintain her pride but the smallfolk pelt her with rotten vegetables and insults, by the end she is crying and crawling on her hands and knees. Meanwhile, the ex-maester Qyburn has perfected "Ser Robert Strong", an eight-foot-tall figure encased in armor, assigned as Cersei's champion in trial by combat. Having taken control of the regency of Cersei's son, the young king Tommen, her uncle Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle attempt to undo the damage caused by Cersei's incompetent rule. Later, Kevan finds Pycelle murdered, and is subsequently shot himself with a crossbow by Varys. Varys reveals that he has been plotting for years for the Lannisters to destroy themselves so that the Targaryens may return to power, telling Kevan that Aegon has been shaped to be an ideal ruler. The book ends with Varys sending his "little birds" (child spies) to finish Kevan.
Extras

In addition to the maps published in previous books, the book includes a new map of the previously-unmapped area of the Free Cities on the eastern continent. Like the previous four volumes in the Ice and Fire series, the book includes an appendix with a complete list of characters.
Characters

The story is narrated from the point of view of 18 different characters,[10] including two minor one-off point-of-view (POV) characters featured in the prologue and epilogue.[11] All but two POV characters were identified before the book's release.

In the North:

    Prologue: Varamyr Sixskins, a skinchanger and one of the surviving wildlings north of the Wall.[12]
    Jon Snow, the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch and bastard son of Eddard Stark.
    Bran Stark, rightful heir to his brother, the late Robb Stark. Seeking an old power beyond the Wall, believed dead by his own family.
    Davos Seaworth, former smuggler and Hand of the King to Stannis Baratheon. Has recently learned to read, sent to negotiate with White Harbor.
    Reek, the Prince of Winterfell, the Turncloak, a Ghost in Winterfell: Theon Greyjoy, presumed-dead son of recently deceased King Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, a captive of Ramsay Bolton and now tortured, starved and barely sane.
    The Wayward Bride, the King's Prize, the Sacrifice: Asha Greyjoy, niece of King Euron Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, fled the Iron Islands after her uncle's coronation.
    Lady Melisandre, a shadow-binder from Asshai and a devoted priestess to the red god R'hllor, advisor to Stannis.

In the eastern continent of Essos:

    Daenerys Targaryen, heir to the Targaryen dynasty which ruled Westeros for 300 years until their deposition 15 years before the first novel. Self-proclaimed Queen of Westeros, she now rules the city of Meereen.
    Tyrion Lannister, dwarf and uncle to the King Tommen of Westeros, a fugitive wanted for kinslaying and regicide. Recently fled the Seven Kingdoms.
    The Merchant's Man, the Windblown, the Spurned Suitor, the Dragontamer: Quentyn Martell, eldest son of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne, traveling into the East on a mission for his father.
    The Lost Lord, the Griffin Reborn: Jon Connington, one of the former Hands of the King to Aerys Targaryen and one of Prince Rhaegar's closest friends. Exiled, and falsely believed dead. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process.
    The Queensguard, the Discarded Knight, the Kingbreaker, the Queen's Hand: Ser Barristan Selmy, the former Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, and the first of Daenerys's Queensguard.
    The Iron Suitor: Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron fleet, recently gone on a quest to find Daenerys and use her for the Ironborn's own ends.
    The Blind Girl, the Ugly Little Girl: Arya Stark, hiding in the Free City of Braavos, where she has taken on the identity of the "Cat of the Canals" and continues her training as an assassin by the House of Black and White (The Faceless Men).

In the South:

    The Watcher: Areo Hotah, Captain of Doran Martell's guard.
    Ser Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard; currently occupying the lands around Riverrun.
    Cersei Lannister, the Queen Regent, currently imprisoned in a tower cell, awaiting trial.
    Epilogue: Ser Kevan Lannister, head of House Lannister in light of his brother's death, and current regent to King Tommen. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process.

Chapters for several POVs, which may include Sansa Stark, Samwell Tarly, Aeron Damphair, Arianne Martell, and Brienne of Tarth were written for the book, but they will instead tentatively appear in the next book, The Winds of Winter.
Writing
Early development

A Dance with Dragons was originally intended to be the title of the second novel in the sequence, when Martin still envisioned the series as a trilogy. Some early US editions of A Game of Thrones (1996) list A Dance of Dragons as the forthcoming second volume in the series. The 1998 anthology Legends, which features the novella The Hedge Knight from the same universe, listed A Dance of Dragons as the third installment of a four-book series.

In May 2005 Martin announced that the "sheer size" of his still-unfinished manuscript for A Feast for Crows had led him and his publishers to split the narrative into two books.[13] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location, resulting in "two novels taking place simultaneously" with different casts of characters.[13] Published in 2005, A Feast for Crows is narrated primarily by characters in the South of the Seven Kingdoms and in the new locations of the Iron Islands and Dorne. A Dance with Dragons features characters in the North and across the narrow sea, although Jaime Lannister, Cersei Lannister, Arya Stark, Areo Hotah and Victarion and Asha Greyjoy appear in both volumes.

Approximately one-third of the published A Dance with Dragons consists of material that had been written for the pre-split A Feast for Crows, although much of this has been rewritten by Martin.[14]

In 2009, Martin confirmed that, contrary to earlier statements, Sansa Stark would not appear in A Dance with Dragons; Sansa chapters initially slated for the novel have instead been pushed back to The Winds of Winter, which is planned to be the sixth book in the series.[15] In early 2010, Martin noted that his intent for A Dance with Dragons was for the first 800 manuscript pages to cover the alternate characters in the same time span as A Feast for Crows, and that "Everything that follows is post-Feast, so that's where some of the cast from the last book start popping up again."[16] Stating that "I wanted to resolve at least a few of the cliffhangers from Feast," Martin also mentioned the possibility that some of his finished chapters might get pushed to the next novel, The Winds of Winter, depending on the length of the finished manuscript for A Dance with Dragons.[16]
Road to publication

Despite original, optimistic predictions of possible completion in late 2006, Martin completed the novel in April 2011, nearly five years later. During this period, Martin's blog featured sporadic updates on his progress, and in January 2008 he posted an update affirming his vigilant commitment to finishing the novel.[17] In early 2008, publisher Spectra Books (a division of Random House) announced that A Dance with Dragons would be released on September 30, 2008,[18] but Martin stated this would only be possible if he finished writing by the end of June, before his trip to Spain and Portugal;[19] he did not meet his goal.[20]

On February 19, 2009, Martin posted on his website: "I am trying to finish the book by June. I think I can do that. If I do, A Dance with Dragons will likely be published in September or October."[15] On June 22, 2009, the author expressed "guarded optimism" with respect to his progress on the novel, while still not confirming a publication date.[21] When asked in a July 2009 interview with FREE! Magazine how the book was going, Martin stated, "It is going pretty well, actually. I am hoping to finish it by September or October; that is my goal."[22] On October 6, 2009, Martin said that his working manuscript for A Dance With Dragons had just exceeded 1,100 pages of completed chapters, plus "considerably more in partials, fragments, and roughs."[23] He noted that this made the upcoming novel longer than his earlier books A Game of Thrones and A Feast for Crows, and nearly as long as A Clash of Kings.[23]

On March 2, 2010, Martin remarked that he had reached 1,311 manuscript pages, making Dance the second-longest novel in the series at that point, behind only the 1,521-page manuscript of A Storm of Swords.[24] On July 8, 2010, Martin spoke at a conference and confirmed the current length of the book to be 1,400 manuscript pages. He expressed his disappointment that he was unable to completely finish the novel by the conference, although he would not speculate how soon the book would be completed after his return home on July 11.[11] At the same conference, Martin also confirmed that he has written one Sansa, one Arya, and two Arianne chapters for the planned sixth novel, Winds of Winter, and had transferred two Cersei chapters from that book into A Dance with Dragons.[11] On August 7, 2010, Martin confirmed that he had completed eight POVs, excluding the prologue and epilogue.[25]

At the New York Comic Con on October 10, 2010, Spectra senior editor Anne Groell announced that Martin had only five chapters remaining to finish, with sections of the chapters already completed. She stated her desire to have the manuscript completed by December.[26] In a December 2010 interview with Bear Swarm, Martin stated that he almost had A Dance With Dragons completed.[27]

On March 3, 2011, the publisher announced that the novel, though at that point still not completed, would be officially published on July 12, 2011.[1][2] Martin claimed this July 2011 publication date was different from the previous publication dates mentioned, in that this was "real", as opposed to earlier "wishful thinking, boundless optimism, cockeyed dreams, [and] honest mistakes".[28] On March 12, he revealed that the unfinished manuscript had exceeded A Storm of Swords in length, making it the longest volume in the entire series.[29] On March 27, he announced that the manuscript had exceeded 1,600 pages.[30] On April 27, 2011, it was announced that Martin had completed A Dance with Dragons.[31][32] Almost a month later, on May 20, 2011, Martin further announced that after incorporating requested changes made by his book editor and her staff copy-editors, suggested final draft notes from trusted friends, and his own final "sweat" (a line-by-line reread done to tighten and eliminate any unnecessary "fat" remaining in the manuscript), that the final draft had been reduced to 1,510 pages; this made Dragons the second-longest novel, by a narrow margin, to volume three, A Storm of Swords. The novel was now ready to meet its announced July 12, 2011 release date.

On June 29, 2011, Martin announced that Amazon Germany had mistakenly released 180 copies of the novel early and requested that those who held copies not spoil the book for fans who had to wait. Several A Song of Ice and Fire websites put an embargo in place on their forums with the same intent.[8]
Editions

Foreign-language editions

    Bulgarian: Бард: "Танц с Дракони" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Dansa amb dracs" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Chinese (traditional): Three volumes, "與龍共舞" 上, 中 and 下
    Croatian: Two volumes, Algoritam: "Ples zmajeva" ("A Dance of Dragons")
    Czech: Talpress: "Tanec s draky" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Danish: "En dans med drager" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Dutch: Two volumes, Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Oude vetes, Nieuwe strijd", "Zwaarden tegen draken" ("Old Feuds, New Battle", "Swords Against Dragons")
    Finnish: Two volumes: "Lohikäärmetanssi" ("Dragondance") 1 and 2
    French: Three volumes, Pygmalion: "Le Bûcher d'un roi", "Les dragons de Meereen", "Une danse avec les dragons" ("The Stake/Pyre of a King", "The Dragons of Meereen", "A Dance with Dragons")
    German: FanPro (2012): "Drachenreigen" ("Dragons' Round"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2012): "Der Sohn des Greifen", "Ein Tanz mit Drachen" ("The Son of the Griffin", "A Dance with Dragons")
    Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Το Κάλεσμα της Φλόγας", "Το Σπαθί στο Σκοτάδι" ("Call of the Flame", "The Sword in the Darkness")
    Hebrew: "ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק א - חלומות ואבק, ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק ב - לאחר המשתה" ("Dance with Dragons Part I - Dreams and Dust, Dancing with Dragons Part II - After the Feast")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Sárkányok tánca" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2011, 2012): "I guerrieri del ghiaccio", "I fuochi di Valyria", "La danza dei draghi" ("The Warriors of Ice", "The Fires of Valyria", "The Dance of Dragons")
    Japanese: Hardcover : Three volumes, Hayakawa (2013): "竜との舞踏" ("Dance with Dragons") I, II and III, paperback : Hayakawa (2016), I, II and III
    Latvian: "Deja ar Pūķiem" ("A Dance with Dragons") [33]
    Lithuanian: Two volumes: "Šokis su Drakonais: Sapnai ir Dulkės", "Šokis su Drakonais: Po Puotos" ("Dance with Dragons: Dreams and the Dust", "Dance with Dragons: After the Feast")
    Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta: "Drømmer og støv", "Dragenes dans" ("Dreams and Dust", "Dance of the Dragons")
    Polish: "Taniec ze smokami" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Dança dos Dragões" ("The Dance of Dragons")
    European Portuguese: Two volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Dança dos Dragões", "Os Reinos do Caos" ("A Dance of Dragons", "The Kingdom of Chaos")
    Romanian: Nemira: "Dansul dragonilor" ("The Dance of the Dragons")
    Russian: AST: "Танец с драконами" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Плес са змајевима Део први: Снови и прах", "Плес са змајевима Део други: После гозбе" ("A Dance with Dragons Part I: Dreams and Dust", "A Dance with Dragons Part II: After the Feast")
    Slovenian: "Ples z zmaji" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Spanish: Ediciones Gigamesh: "Danza de dragones" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Swedish: "Drakarnas dans" ("Dance of the Dragons")
    Turkish: "Ejderhaların Dansı" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Vietnamese: Three volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5A: Đánh thức Rồng Thiêng", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5B: Trấn thủ thành Mereen", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5C: Vũ điệu Rồng Thiêng". ("Game of Thrones 5A: Awake Dragon", "Game of Thrones 5B: Defense on Mereen", "Game of Thrones 5C: Dance of Dragons")

Reception
Critical response

The Atlantic's Rachael Brown found A Dance with Dragons "infinitely more satisfying than its predecessor, 2005's bleak and plodding A Feast for Crows. The aspects of Martin's work that have endeared him to fans are abundant here – rich world building, narrative twists and turns, and gritty depictions of the human struggle for power. Characters who were sorely missed in Feast – Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow – make up more than a third of the novel, and Martin is wise enough to give us at least a chapter from (almost) everyone else. Weaknesses that have plagued Martin's previous books are also present: too much repetition, unexceptional prose, and characters who use the same idioms (and have sex in exactly the same manner) no matter their ethnicity, social class, or continent. But while A Dance with Dragons cries out for better editing, it remains entirely engrossing. Martin has hidden so many clues and red herrings throughout his previous volumes that it is a thrill to see certain pieces fall into place."[34]

Remy Verhoeve of The Huffington Post said, "A Dance with Dragons is just a book, of course. It is not the Second Coming or anything. And I understand that the author must feel a lot of pressure concerning this one (he should). It's late and it has to repair some of the damage done by A Feast for Crows, which frankly felt as if it was written by a ghost writer at times. Finally it is here, and some of the things we've been wondering about for more than a decade are actually revealed (not everything, but at least some things). It has the same structural problems as the previous book; it is sprawling and incoherent at times, but at least the characters are more interesting than in the previous installment. It does feel like I'm reading a bunch of separate stories within the same setting–the chapters are told through the eyes of various characters–but that doesn't really bother me as I love the setting and like to see it through various points of view. Theories that have been bandied about online for the last ten years mostly come true in this book, so in that respect the novel isn't shocking but neither is it disappointing. Martin also manages to put in a few twists, but ends the book much like he did the previous one with cliffhangers instead of wrapping things up a little better so the next long wait won't hurt so much."[35]

David Orr of The New York Times said, "A Dance With Dragons comes in at roughly 9,574,622,012 pages, and smart money says the final two books in the series will make this one look like 'The Old Man and the Sea'. Such length isn't necessary, and it hurts Martin's prose and his plot mechanics. Tyrion 'waddles' at least 12 times here, and even if we suppose the unflattering word reflects Tyrion's contempt for his own awkward gait, it seems unlikely he would indulge this contempt when he's, say, fighting for his life. Similarly, when your novel's terrain stretches across hundreds of miles and your world lacks jet propulsion, as an author you face some basic problems of transportation that can result in conveyance via Rube Goldberg."[36]

Time's James Poniewozik found a possible "weakness to the early Meereen sections [by] marking time (and making Dany uncharacteristically indecisive) to allow time for all the pieces to fall into place" and said, "All this makes for a thousand-page book that feels half as long, that moves dextrously, answers key questions and gobsmacks you with convincing feints and change-ups. As in AFFC, there are sections that feel like they could have used an editor. In some chapters you suddenly find yourself in a strange land with a character you have little attachment to, wondering where this thread is going, as if you had stayed too long at a party after the friends you came with have left.[37]

The Washington Post's Bill Sheehan said, "Filled with vividly rendered set pieces, unexpected turnings, assorted cliffhangers and moments of appalling cruelty, A Dance With Dragons is epic fantasy as it should be written: passionate, compelling, convincingly detailed and thoroughly imagined. Despite a number of overtly fantastic elements (dragons, seers, shape shifters and sorcerers), the book — and the series as a whole — feels grounded in the brutal reality of medieval times and has more in common with the Wars of the Roses than it does with The Lord of the Rings. The result is a complex summer blockbuster with brains and heart, a book with rare — and potentially enormous — appeal.[38]

Megan Wasson of The Christian Science Monitor said, "A Dance with Dragons may well be one of the best books in the five-book series so far. Martin's prose is concise but pithy, begging to be devoured over and over again. All the fans' favorite characters make an appearance, unlike in the last book. But what truly sets this book above some of the others in the series is Martin's ability to keep his readers on their toes and the edges of their seats. No character, no matter how likeable and seemingly important, is ever safe from Martin's pen (remember Ned Stark?), and on the other hand, no one can ever be truly pronounced dead. What you thought was going to happen after reading Books No. 1, 2, and even 3 and 4, now clearly will not happen, and that's where Martin's strength lies."[39]
The Winds of Winter is the forthcoming sixth novel in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin.

The previous installment, A Dance with Dragons, covered less story than Martin intended, excluding at least one planned large battle sequence and leaving several character threads ending in cliffhangers.[1] Martin intends to resolve these storylines "very early" in The Winds of Winter, saying "I'm going to open with the two big battles that I was building up to, the battle in the ice and the battle at Meereen—the battle of Slaver's Bay. And then take it from there."[2]

A Victarion Greyjoy chapter will begin five minutes after the end of A Dance with Dragons, taking place on the eve of the Iron Islanders' arrival in Slaver's Bay.[3] Arianne Martell sample chapters that Martin released on his website showed her heading for Griffin's Roost to see the young man who is calling himself Aegon.[4][5]

Martin said in March 2012 that the final two novels will take readers farther north than any of the previous books, and that the Others will appear in the book.[2]
Viewpoint characters

George R. R. Martin has confirmed that the following characters have point-of-view chapters in The Winds of Winter:

    Sansa Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter titled Alayne appeared on Martin's website in April 2015.[7]
    Arya Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter titled Mercy appeared on Martin's website in March 2014.[8][9]
    Arianne Martell: Two chapters were removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in January 2013.[4] The latter chapter was read at Harbour Front Literaturfestival in June 2015.[10] Martin read from both chapters at MystiCon in February 2016.[11] In May 2016, Martin replaced the 2015 sample chapter titled Alayne with the first Arianne Martell chapter he has read from at MystiCon.[12]
    Aeron Greyjoy: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in July 2010.[13] A chapter titled The Forsaken was read in May 2016 at Balticon. It was written in, or before, 2011 but there was no confirmation that this was the chapter removed from A Dance with Dragons.[14]
    Theon Greyjoy: One sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in December 2011.[15][16] It also appears in the UK paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons (part two).
    Victarion Greyjoy: Portions of one chapter were first read at TIFF Bell Lightbox in March 2012.[3]
    Tyrion Lannister: One chapter was read at Eastercon in April 2012,[17] and another one at Worldcon in August 2013,[18] the second of which was later published in the official iOS app on March 20, 2014.[19]
    Barristan Selmy: One chapter was released in the 2013 U.S. paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons.[20] In 2013 Martin read from 2 chapters at Boskone.[21][better source needed]
    Areo Hotah: Martin confirmed on his blog that Areo Hotah will return as a point of view character.[22]
    Cersei Lannister: Reportedly confirmed at Balticon 2016.[23][better source needed]

George R. R. Martin confirmed that there were no new viewpoints intended for The Winds of Winter.[24] In addition, he teased at the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con that Jeyne Westerling, Robb Stark's widow, will appear in the prologue chapter, but did not reveal who will be the POV character.[25]
Background and publication
Chapters

The Winds of Winter[6] was originally intended, in the very early stages of the series, to be the final installment of A Song of Ice and Fire (then conceived as a trilogy).[26] Following his expansion of the series, Martin eventually concluded it would be succeeded by one final novel, A Dream of Spring.[27] By June 2010, Martin had finished four chapters for The Winds of Winter from the viewpoints of Sansa Stark, Arya Stark, and Arianne Martell.[6] In July 2010, he added an Aeron Greyjoy chapter that had been moved from A Dance with Dragons to The Winds of Winter, accumulating around 100 completed manuscript pages.[13] Following the publication of A Dance with Dragons in the summer of 2011, Martin announced his return to writing the series in January 2012,[1] having spent the intervening time on his U.S. and overseas book publicity tours and attending various conventions. He continued to work, with his two co-authors Elio Garcia and Linda Antonsson, on the planned illustrated series companion guide The World of Ice & Fire concordance and Westeros history, which at one time he wanted to have completed by the end of 2011. He also worked on a Westeros story, the fourth Tales of Dunk and Egg novella, that will eventually find anthology publication elsewhere. A year after that eventual publication, the story and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales will be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel.[28]

In December 2011, Martin posted a Theon Greyjoy viewpoint chapter from The Winds of Winter; he also announced that another sample chapter would be included at the end of the North American paperback version of A Dance with Dragons,[2][29] which was originally expected to be released in summer 2012,[2] but was released on October 29, 2013.[30] (International paperback editions of A Dance with Dragons published a year earlier did not include a new, as yet unpublished sample chapter.)[31] In the first quarter of 2012, Martin read new chapters of other characters at public events, including the chapters of Victarion Greyjoy and Tyrion Lannister.[17] Martin continued work editing anthologies and completing a large, highly detailed series atlas The Lands of Ice and Fire, which was published in October 2012.[32][33] Martin published another sample chapter from Arianne Martell's POV on his website in January 2013.[4] On March 27, ten days before the Game of Thrones season four premiere, Martin posted a chapter on his website, titled Mercy. Martin said the new chapter is actually an old one, though never published nor publicly read.[8] In April 2015, Martin posted a Sansa Stark viewpoint chapter from The Winds of Winter titled Alayne.[7] In May 2016, Martin replaced this chapter with an Arianne Martell chapter he had read from at Mysticon,[12] and an Aeron Greyjoy chapter that was removed from A Dance with Dragons was read at Balticon.

As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels written by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. Martin began the series in 1991 and published the first volume, A Game of Thrones, in 1996. Martin gradually extended the originally planned trilogy into seven volumes. The fifth installment, A Dance with Dragons, took Martin five years to write before it was published in 2011. The sixth book, The Winds of Winter, is currently being written.
The story of A Song of Ice and Fire takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos, with a history of thousands of years. The series is told in the third person by point of view (POV) characters, whose number reaches 31 by the fifth novel. Three stories become interwoven: the chronicling of a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the dormant cold supernatural Others dwelling beyond an immense wall of ice on Westeros’ northern border; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled daughter of a king murdered in a civil war shortly before her birth, to return to Westeros with her fire-breathing dragons and claim her rightful throne.
Drawing inspiration from historical events such as the English period of the Wars of the Roses, Martin defied the conventions of the high fantasy genre. The series received praise for its realism; it subdues magic in favor of battles and political intrigue. The first novel contains practically no magic at all, yet the presence of magic keeps growing for each book. Violence, sexuality and moral ambiguity are frequently displayed among a set of over a thousand named characters. Major characters are often killed off so that readers cannot rely on the supposed heroes to remain safe and sound. The multiple viewpoint structure allows characters to be explored from many sides so that the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. In contrast to an omniscient storyteller, this structure can present the reader with misleading information as it is slanted by each character’s own interpretation of events, rather than being a strictly factual presentation. A Song of Ice and Fire also received critical commentary for its diverse portrayal of women and religion.Game Of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire)
Book Description
A Clash of Kings is the second novel in A Song of Ice and Fire, an epic fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin expected to consist of seven volumes. It was first published on 16 November 1998 in the United Kingdom, although the first United States edition did not follow until March 1999. Like its predecessor, A Game of Thrones, it won the Locus Award (in 1999) for Best Novel and was nominated for the Nebula Award (also in 1999) for best novel. In May 2005 Meisha Merlin released a limited edition of the novel, fully illustrated by John Howe.
The novel has been adapted for television by HBO as the second season of the TV series Game of Thrones.
A Clash of Kings is also the name of the first expansion to the Game of Thrones board game.
Plot summary
A Clash of Kings depicts the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in civil war, while the Night's Watch mounts a reconnaissance to investigate the mysterious people known as wildlings. Meanwhile, Daenerys Targaryen continues her plan to reconquer the Seven Kingdoms.
In the Seven Kingdoms
With King Robert Baratheon dead, his son Joffrey Baratheon and brothers Renly and Stannis all claim the throne of Westeros. Robb Stark is declared 'King in the North' while Balon Greyjoy declares himself king of the Iron Islands and attacks the western coast of the North. Robb's younger brother Bran Stark finds new friends in Jojen and Meera Reed.
Stannis Baratheon declares himself King of Westeros, encouraged by Melisandre of Asshai, a priestess who believes Stannis the reincarnation of Azor Ahai, a messianic figure of her faith. The war is dubbed the War of the Five Kings. Catelyn Stark, under orders from her son King Robb Stark, meets Renly and Stannis to discuss alliance against the Lannisters; but the ensuing parley ends in acrimony and Renly resolves to destroy his brother with his larger army. However, without warning a mysterious shadow comes to life in Renly's own tent and kills him. Shocked, Catelyn and the only other witness, the warrior-maid Brienne of Tarth, flee the scene. Having lost Renly, the storm lords have no choice but to declare for Stannis. Storm's End itself only falls, however, when Stannis's loyal Ser Davos, a former smuggler, sneaks Melisandre below the castle in a small boat. To his horror, Melisandre gives birth to a shadow which enters Storm's End and slays its stubborn castellan.
Tyrion Lannister arrives at King's Landing as acting Hand of the King, the closest adviser to the monarch Joffrey. Whilst intriguing against Joffrey's mother, the Queen Regent Cersei, Tyrion improves the defenses of the city. Learning of Renly's death, Tyrion resolves on two courses of action. Knowing that the Tyrells will not be happy following Stannis, he decides to make them a better offer. He also resolves to bring the Martells of Dorne into the war on his side. He sends Littlefinger to treat with the Tyrells and sends other messengers to Dorne.The negotiations are solidified by marriage arrangements. Lord Mace Tyrell agrees to wed his daughter Margaery to King Joffrey I, whilst Prince Doran Martell agrees to marry his son Trystane to Joffrey's sister Myrcella.
To conquer the North and to impress his father Balon, Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell, taking Bran and Rickon captive; but Bran and Rickon disappear in the night. Rather than admit his failure, Theon murders two anonymous peasant boys similar in size to Bran and Rickon and mutilates their faces to enhance the resemblance. Believing this ruse, Stark supporters besiege the castle, joined by a force from House Bolton. Theon having conspired with Bolton's bastard son, Ramsay Snow, the Bolton soldiers turn on the besiegers and Theon opens the gates to the victorious Boltons, whereupon they destroy Winterfell, slaughter its inhabitants and take Theon prisoner. Osha, a captured wildling turned castle servant, takes Rickon to safety while Bran, accompanied by Meera, Jojen, and his simpleton manservant Hodor, travels north. Robb Stark wins several victories against the Lannisters, and Tywin Lannister advances against him, but receiving news that King's Landing is threatened, withdraws.
Arya Stark, posing as a boy named Arry, is taken north by Yoren as a new recruit for the Night's Watch. However, they are attacked by Lannister freeriders led by Ser Amory Lorch and Yoren is killed at a town on the shores of Gods Eye. The survivors are taken to Harrenhal and put to work as servants in the undermanned castle. For saving his life during the attack, a man named Jaqen H'ghar promises to repay Arya by killing three men of her choice. For her three choices, Arya selects Chiswyck, a soldier in Gregor Clegane's forces, Weese, her servant overseer, and Jaqen H'ghar himself. The first two murders he carries out without question; in lieu of the third choice, Arya leverages H'ghar to help her slay the Lannister soldiers guarding Robett Glover, who had been taken prisoner by the Brave Companions. After Glover is freed, the Brave Companions turn their cloaks and join with the North. H'ghar gives Arya a mysterious iron coin and tells her to find him in Braavos if she should ever desire to learn his secrets. He then adopts a new identity and leaves. Control of Harrenhal is ceded to Roose Bolton, whom Arya serves as cupbearer, but soon escapes.
In the Battle of Blackwater Bay, Stannis Baratheon's army reaches King's Landing and launches assaults by both land and sea. The Baratheon forces vastly outnumber the Lannister defenders but under Tyrion's command, the Lannister forces use "wildfire" (similar to Greek fire) to ignite the bay, and raise a massive chain across its mouth to prevent Stannis's fleet from retreating. Stannis's attack fails when Tywin Lannister leads his army (and the remaining forces under Mace Tyrell) to King's Landing. During the defense of the castle, Tyrion is attacked by one of Joffrey's guards, and rescued by his squire, Podrick Payne. Stannis's fate is left uncertain.
On the Wall
A scouting party from the Night's Watch learn that the wildlings are uniting under 'King-beyond-the-Wall' Mance Rayder. The Watch then continue to an ancient hill-top fortress known as the Fist of the First Men, whence Jeor Mormont sends Jon Snow and Qhorin Halfhand with others to the Skirling Pass, where they are hunted by wildling warriors. Facing certain defeat, Halfhand commands Snow to infiltrate the wildlings and learn their plans. They are captured by wildlings who demand Jon fight Qhorin to join them. Jon kills Qhorin with the aid of his direwolf, Ghost and Jon learns that Mance Rayder is advancing on the Wall with thirty-thousand wildlings, giants, and mammoths.
In the East
Daenerys Targaryen travels east, accompanied by the knight Jorah Mormont, her remaining followers, and three newly hatched dragons. Scouts find a safe route to the city of Qarth, where her dragons make Daenerys notorious. Xaro Xhoan Daxos, the leader of the Thirteen, a prominent group of traders in Qarth, initially befriends the outsiders; but Daenerys cannot secure aid in claiming the throne of Westeros, because she refuses to give away any of her dragons. As a last resort, Daenerys seeks counsel from the warlocks of Qarth, who show Daenerys many confusing visions and threaten her life, whereupon one of Daenerys's dragons, Drogon, burns down the warlocks' "House of the Undying". An attempt to assassinate Daenerys is thwarted by a fat warrior named Strong Belwas and his squire Arstan Whitebeard: agents of Daenerys's ally Illyrio Mopatis, who have come to escort her back to Pentos.
A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels written by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. Martin began the series in 1991 and published the first volume, A Game of Thrones, in 1996. Martin gradually extended the originally planned trilogy into seven volumes. The fifth installment, A Dance with Dragons, took Martin five years to write before it was published in 2011. The sixth book, The Winds of Winter, is currently being written.
The story of A Song of Ice and Fire takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos, with a history of thousands of years. The series is told in the third person by point of view (POV) characters, whose number reaches 31 by the fifth novel. Three stories become interwoven: the chronicling of a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the dormant cold supernatural Others dwelling beyond an immense wall of ice on Westeros’ northern border; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled daughter of a king murdered in a civil war shortly before her birth, to return to Westeros with her fire-breathing dragons and claim her rightful throne.
Drawing inspiration from historical events such as the English period of the Wars of the Roses, Martin defied the conventions of the high fantasy genre. The series received praise for its realism; it subdues magic in favor of battles and political intrigue. The first novel contains practically no magic at all, yet the presence of magic keeps growing for each book. Violence, sexuality and moral ambiguity are frequently displayed among a set of over a thousand named characters. Major characters are often killed off so that readers cannot rely on the supposed heroes to remain safe and sound. The multiple viewpoint structure allows characters to be explored from many sides so that the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. In contrast to an omniscient storyteller, this structure can present the reader with misleading information as it is slanted by each character’s own interpretation of events, rather than being a strictly factual presentation. A Song of Ice and Fire also received critical commentary for its diverse portrayal of women and religion.Game Of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire)
Book Description
A Storm of Swords is the third of seven planned novels in A Song of Ice and Fire, a fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin. It was first published on 8 August 2000 in the United Kingdom,[1] with a United States edition following in November 2000. Its publication was preceded by a novella called Path of the Dragon, which collects some of the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel into a single book.

At the time of its publication, A Storm of Swords was the longest novel in the series. It was so long that in the UK, Australia and Israel its paperback edition was split in half, Part 1 being published as Steel and Snow in June 2001 (with the one-volume cover) and Part 2 as Blood and Gold in August 2001 (with a specially-commissioned new cover). The same division was used in the Polish and Greek editions. In France, the decision was made to cut the novel into four separate volumes.

A Storm of Swords won the 2001 Locus Award,[2] the 2002 Geffen Award for Best Novel and was nominated for the 2001 Nebula Award for Best Novel.[2] It was the first novel in the series to be nominated for the Hugo Award, one of the two most prestigious awards in science fiction and fantasy publishing, although it lost to J. K. Rowling's novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.[2][3]

Meisha Merlin Publishing, which had previously issued limited, illustrated editions of both A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings, was planning to release a similar version for A Storm of Swords in two volumes; however, lengthy delays in the release of A Clash of Kings caused it to lose its publishing rights, which were picked up by Subterranean Press. This edition, illustrated by Charles Vess, was released in the summer of 2006.

A Storm of Swords is also the name of the second expansion to the board game A Game of Thrones, released in July 2006. Approximately the first half of the novel was adapted for television as the third season of the HBO show Game of Thrones,[4] while the second half became the basis for the series' fourth season,[5] and some elements for the series' fifth season.
Plot summary
"The Red Wedding" redirects here. For the television adaptation of the scene, see The Rains of Castamere.

A Storm of Swords picks up the story slightly before the end of its predecessor, A Clash of Kings. The Seven Kingdoms of Westeros are still in the grip of the War of the Five Kings,[6] wherein Robb Stark, Balon Greyjoy, Joffrey Baratheon, and Stannis Baratheon compete for the Iron Throne. Meanwhile, a large host of wildlings approach the Wall under the leadership of Mance Rayder, the self-proclaimed "King Beyond the Wall", with only the undermanned Night's Watch in opposition. Finally, Daenerys Targaryen approaches Pentos.
In the Seven Kingdoms
The North / The Riverlands

At Riverrun, Catelyn Stark offers the captive Jaime Lannister his freedom in exchange for Catelyn's daughters, Sansa and Arya, who Catelyn believes are held by the Lannisters in King's Landing. Jaime is sent south, escorted by Brienne of Tarth. Catelyn makes this deal without the approval of her son Robb, the King in the North, and is taken prisoner upon its discovery. Robb's army returns to Riverrun, having vanquished Tywin Lannister's armies in the Westerlands, and Robb reveals that he has married Jeyne Westerling, invalidating his promise to be wed to a daughter of House Frey. Jaime's release infuriates Lord Rickard Karstark, whose two sons Eddard and Torrhen had been killed by Jaime in battle; and in revenge, Karstark kills two young Lannister captives. To secure his authority and atone for these deaths (thus preventing the Lannisters from executing Stark prisoners), Robb executes Lord Rickard, losing the support of House Karstark as a result.

Jaime and Brienne are waylaid by the Brave Companions (now in the service of Roose Bolton) and taken to Harrenhal. Their captain Vargo Hoat orders Jaime's sword hand cut off, hoping the blame will be placed on Bolton, but Jaime is sent to King's Landing after he assures Lord Bolton he will absolve him to his father. Brienne is thrown into a bear pit by Hoat, and Jaime risks his own life to rescue her. He also tells her that he had killed the former King Aerys II Targaryen because he planned to burn the city and its inhabitants with wildfire to spite Robert Baratheon.

Robb's forces dwindle further at the Battle of Duskendale, wherein the eastern half of the Stark's armies, under the command of Roose Bolton, are ambushed by a joint army under Gregor Clegane and Lord Randyll Tarly. More losses are taken as the army retreats. Meanwhile, the Greyjoys now hold the Neck, having taken Moat Cailin, thus barring Robb from returning to his homeland. To recapture Moat Cailin from the Greyjoys, Robb relies on the support of the Freys. When Lord Hoster Tully dies, Catelyn's brother Edmure becomes Lord of Riverrun and Lord Paramount of the Trident. Robb gains renewed hope when he learns that Balon Greyjoy has died in a fall from a bridge, whereafter two of Balon's brothers, as well as his daughter Asha, vie to succeed him. The Freys propose a wedding between Edmure and Roslin Frey, one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters, to compensate for the loss of Robb's marriage.

Arya Stark and her friends encounter the "Brotherhood Without Banners", led by Lord Beric Dondarrion and the red priest Thoros of Myr: originally sent by Eddard Stark to put down the Lannister raids, the band now defends the smallfolk of the Riverlands. The group encounters Sandor Clegane, known as the Hound, who abandoned Joffrey during the Battle of the Blackwater, and offers him trial by battle, which he wins by killing Beric, but Thoros resurrects Beric thereafter. Arya is kidnapped by the Hound for ransom, and they proceed to Riverrun. On their journey, they discover that Robb and Catelyn will be at Edmure's wedding at the Frey bridge-stronghold The Twins, and change their destination accordingly.

Robb Stark's army reaches the Twins, where Walder agrees to forgive Robb if the wedding between Edmure and Roslin takes place. At the wedding celebration, the Boltons and Freys turn on the Stark soldiers, massacring the Stark forces. Robb is murdered by Roose Bolton, while Catelyn has her throat cut by Raymund Frey and her body is thrown into the adjacent river. Many of the northern lords are killed, and the survivors captured. Edmure, after consummating his marriage, is kept as a hostage. These events become known as the Red Wedding.

It is thereafter revealed that Roose Bolton engineered the defeat at Duskendale by sending Robb's soldiers into a trap set by the Lannisters, while holding his own forces in reserve, and arranging that all but his own forces would be slaughtered in rearguard. The combined effect was to kill off the forces of other Northern houses loyal to Robb while leaving the Bolton army unscathed. Tywin Lannister (the King's Hand and grandfather) rewards Roose by naming House Bolton the Great House of the North, in place of House Stark. The crown also legitimizes Roose's bastard son Ramsay Snow as a Bolton and the new Lord of Winterfell.

Arya and the Hound arrive at the outskirts of the castle as the Red Wedding is taking place; to keep her from running inside to her death, the Hound knocks Arya unconscious and takes her downriver. As she sleeps, Arya sees through the eyes of her long-missing direwolf, Nymeria, that her mother Catelyn is dead. Arya and the Hound encounter Gregor Clegane's men, by whom the Hound is wounded. His wound becomes infected, and Arya abandons him. She finds a ship from the Free City of Braavos, but the captain refuses her passage until she offers him the coin and password "Valar Morghulis", given to her by Jaqen H'ghar. The captain replies "Valar Dohaeris", and they set sail for Braavos.

In the epilogue, a re-animated but decayed and mutilated Catelyn, now under the name Lady Stoneheart, is leading the Brotherhood Without Banners, Beric having given his life to resurrect her, and she oversees the lynching of two Freys present at the Red Wedding.
The South / King's Landing

After the Battle of the Blackwater, Davos Seaworth is taken to Dragonstone by men loyal to King Stannis. Davos blames the red priestess Melisandre for Stannis's defeat, and is imprisoned for treason (Melisandre having foreseen his intention to assassinate her). At Melisandre's behest, Stannis releases Davos and asks him to serve as his Hand. With Stannis' cooperation, Melisandre has performed rituals to awaken "stone dragons", which she identifies as the great statues adjacent to the castle.

King's Landing welcomes the Tyrells as liberators, and King Joffrey sets aside his betrothal to Sansa Stark in favor of Margaery Tyrell. Sansa is soon compelled to marry Tyrion Lannister, who refuses to consummate the marriage against her will.

Word reaches King's Landing of the sudden death of Balon Greyjoy, followed by news of the Red Wedding. Joffrey gloats that he has "won" the war; whereas the governing Small Council is shocked to learn that Tywin secretly masterminded the Red Wedding. Tyrion warns his father that the defeated Northerners will not quietly submit to Bolton rule, but Tywin dismisses his warning. Later, Tyrion realizes that Joffrey sent the assassin who attempted to kill Bran Stark at Winterfell, and thus set the war in motion.

Margaery and Joffrey's wedding is held as planned, but during the ensuing festivities, King Joffrey is poisoned. Tyrion is accused of the murder by his sister Cersei Lannister and placed on trial. Sansa is smuggled out of the castle by the jester Dontos Hollard, and taken to Lord Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish, who has Dontos killed and admits culpability in Joffrey's death and Tyrion's framing, incriminating Margaery's grandmother Olenna Tyrell as well. Littlefinger and Sansa departs King's Landing for the Eyrie, Littlefinger scheming to marry Catelyn's sister Lysa Arryn with the blessing of the Small Council to gain the support of House Arryn.

Davos discovers a request by the Night's Watch for aid against Mance Rayder and the Others. Melisandre tries to persuade Stannis to sacrifice Edric Storm, a bastard son of Stannis' late brother King Robert Baratheon, to wake the dragons. Stannis is reluctant, though he uses Edric's blood in leeches to curse the three rival Kings. After Balon, Robb and Joffrey die, apparently proving the power of King's blood, Davos has Edric smuggled to safety. Stannis prepares to execute Davos for treason but is prevented when Davos shows Stannis the Night's Watch's plea.

Jaime and Brienne reach King's Landing to find that Joffrey's younger brother Tommen Baratheon will inherit the throne; Tyrion is on trial; and the Tyrell bannermen blame Brienne for Renly Baratheon's death. Jaime's severed right hand becomes infected, but he is healed by former maester Qyburn, earning Qyburn the admiration of Cersei. Jaime refuses to believe that Tyrion killed Joffrey, rejects Cersei's advances, and becomes Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, but refuses his father's offer of Casterly Rock, whereupon Tywin disinherits him. Jaime frees Brienne and gives her a sword reforged from Ice, Ned Stark's sword. He tells her to keep her oath to Catelyn, to find Arya and Sansa and return them home. Against Tyrion, Cersei recruits the spymaster Varys and Tyrion's lover, Shae. Tyrion is approached by Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne, who offers a trial by combat against Cersei's champion, Gregor Clegane, who he knows was responsible for the death of his sister Elia. Oberyn nearly emerges victorious, but is ultimately killed by Gregor, although the poison on Oberyn's spear leaves Gregor dying in agony. Tyrion is again condemned to death but is freed by Jaime and Varys. Jaime reveals that Tyrion's first wife Tysha was not a prostitute as Tywin told him, and genuinely loved Tyrion. Outraged, Tyrion swears revenge on Jaime, Cersei, and Tywin, and tells Jaime he murdered Joffrey and that Cersei took other lovers while he was Robb Stark's captive. During Tyrion's escape, he strangles Shae and kills Tywin in his privy before fleeing Westeros.

At the Eyrie, Littlefinger and Lysa are married, and Sansa remains hidden by pretending to be an illegitimate daughter of Littlefinger's, named Alayne Stone. Lysa reveals that Littlefinger had convinced her to poison Jon Arryn, her late husband, to prevent her son from being fostered to Stannis Baratheon, and to write to Catelyn that Arryn had been poisoned by the Lannisters, which was the catalyst for the events of A Game of Thrones. Lysa threatens to kill Sansa, thinking she is trying to seduce Littlefinger, but Littlefinger intervenes and, after revealing that he had only ever loved Catelyn, pushes Lysa to her death.
On the Wall

The detachment of the Night's Watch under Lord Commander Jeor Mormont awaits word from Qhorin Halfhand and Jon Snow at their forward base. The Watch are attacked by undead wights and the Others, suffering heavy casualties; but Samwell Tarly kills one of the Others with a blade of dragonglass. Some of the Watch mutiny and kill Mormont, but Sam escapes with the help of one of Craster's daughter-wives, Gilly, and they and the girl's newborn child approach the Wall, assisted by a strange figure riding an elk, whom Sam calls Coldhands. Among the dead are most of the Watch's senior leadership.

Bran Stark, his servant Hodor, Jojen and Meera Reed are guided north by Bran's dreams of a three-eyed crow. At the Wall, Sam guides them to Coldhands and returns to Castle Black, having sworn to keep Bran's survival secret even from Jon.

Jon convinces Mance that he is a deserter from the Night's Watch and learns that the Others are driving the wildlings south towards the Wall. Jon and his captor Ygritte also begin a sexual relationship. Mance seeks the legendary Horn of Winter to shatter the Wall. After climbing the Wall, the wildlings press Jon to murder a homeless man. When Jon refuses, the wildlings turn on him but Jon, with the assistance of Bran's direwolf Summer (Bran and company are hiding in a nearby abandoned tower), kills many of the wildlings and escapes to Castle Black. The approaching wildling army reaches Castle Black and assaults the Wall; but Jon takes command of the defenses and repels several assaults, during which Ygritte is slain. After that, Janos Slynt and Alliser Thorne imprison Jon for treachery and subsequently send him north of the Wall to kill Mance under a pretense of parley. As Jon is talking with Mance in the wildling camp, the army of King Stannis arrives, routing the Wildlings, and Mance is imprisoned. Melisandre believes the wildling invasion to portend the return of the Great Other, the sworn foe of her god R'hllor. Stannis offers to legitimize Jon and make him Lord of Winterfell in exchange for his support, but when his direwolf Ghost unexpectedly returns, Jon decides to decline Stannis' offer. Before he can inform Stannis, Jon is chosen by the Night's Watch as its new Lord Commander.
In the East

Heading for Pentos by sea, Daenerys Targaryen learns that large slave armies can be bought in the cities of Slaver's Bay, and exchanges one of her infant dragons for the entire host of the warrior-eunuch Unsullied. Upon payment, which includes Drogon (the largest and strongest of her dragons), Daenerys orders the Unsullied to turn on their former masters and sack the city. With the help of her maturing dragons, she frees all the slaves of Astapor. Daenerys' horde then conquers the slaver city of Yunkai; but the lords of neighbouring Meereen antagonize Daenerys by killing child slaves and burning the land to deny her resources. Consequently, Daenerys besieges the city to no avail.

Daenerys discovers two traitors in her camp: Ser Jorah Mormont, who had spied on her for Varys, informant to the late King Robert Baratheon, in exchange for a royal pardon; and Arstan Whitebeard, an alias of Ser Barristan Selmy, the humiliated former Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard. Daenerys offers both men the chance to make amends by sneaking into Meereen to free the slaves and start an uprising. Meereen soon falls and, in retaliation for the murdered child slaves, Daenerys has the city's rulers put to death. Selmy asks for Daenerys' forgiveness and becomes Lord Commander of her Queensguard while Jorah, who refuses to admit any wrong, is banished. When Daenerys learns that the council she left in Astapor has been overthrown, she decides to rule Meereen in practice for the rule of Westeros.
Characters
The tale is told through the eyes of ten main characters, plus a one-off prologue POV and a one-off epilogue POV character, for a total of 12 narrators.
    Prologue: Chett, a brother and hound-keeper of the Night's Watch
    Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer
    Jon Snow, bastard son of Eddard Stark, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    Catelyn Stark, of House Tully, widow of Lord Eddard Stark
    Tyrion Lannister, youngest son of Tywin Lannister, a dwarf, brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister
    Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark
    Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark
    Bran Stark, son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark, heir to Winterfell and the North
    Samwell Tarly, cowardly son of Lord Randyll Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    Davos Seaworth, a smuggler turned knight in the service of King Stannis Baratheon
    Daenerys Targaryen, exiled Queen of Westeros, of the Targaryen dynasty
    Epilogue: Merrett Frey, a member of the numerous Frey family.
Development
On October 6, 2009, Martin noted on his blog that his manuscript for A Storm of Swords had been 1521 pages in length;[7] the initial printed hardcover came in at 992 pages.[8] Martin did not write the Red Wedding chapters until he had completed every other chapter of the book, as he felt it was "the hardest thing I ever wrote" and that he would rather delay writing until absolutely necessary. In contrast, he referred to the chapter of Joffrey's fatal wedding as "easy and fun to write" but that he nevertheless tried to instill empathy for the painful demise of this very unpopular character and "bring home the point that this, too, was a human being who was scared and terrified and then dead".[9][10]
Editions

Foreign language editions
    Bulgarian: Бард: "Вихър от Мечове"
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Tempesta d'espases" "Storm of swords"
    Chinese: 重庆出版社(2007): "冰雨的风暴" ("Storm of Freezing Rain").
    Czech: Talpress: "Bouře mečů" ("Storm of Swords")
    Danish: Gyldendal: "En Storm af Sværd" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Dutch: Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Een storm van zwaarden" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Estonian: Two volumes, hardcover, Varrak (2010, 2011): "Mõõkade maru. Teras ja lumi" (A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow"), "Mõõkade maru. Veri ja kuld" ("A Storm of Swords: Blood and Gold")
    Finnish: Kirjava: "Miekkamyrsky" ("Swordstorm")
    French: Four volumes (Hardcover: Pygmalion (2001, 2002, 2003); paperback: J'ai Lu (2003, 2004)): "Les brigands" (hardcover) / "Intrigues à Port-Réal" (paperback), "L'épée de feu", "Les noces pourpres", "La loi du régicide" ("The Outlaws/Intrigues in King's Landing", "The Sword of Fire", "The Crimson Wedding", "The Law of the Kingslayer".)
    German: Single volume, Fantasy Productions (2005): "Schwertgewitter" ("Sword Storm"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2001, 2002): "Sturm der Schwerter", "Die Königin der Drachen" ("Storm of Swords", "The Queen of Dragons").
    Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Παγωμένες Λεπίδες", "Ματωμένο Χρυσάφι" ("Frozen Blades","Bloody Gold")
    Hebrew: "סופת החרבות חלק א - פלדה ושלג, סופת החרבות חלק ב - דם וזהב" ("Storm of swords - Steel and snow","Storm of swords - blood and gold")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Kardok vihara” ("Storm of Swords")
    Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2002, 2003, 2004): "Tempesta di spade", "I fiumi della guerra", "Il Portale delle Tenebre" ("A Storm of Swords", "The Rivers of War", "The Gate of Darkness").
    Japanese: Three volumes, hardcover : Hayakawa (2006-7), paperback : Hayakawa (2012): "剣嵐の大地" ("The Land of the Sword Storm") I, II and III
    Korean: Eun Haeng Namu Publishing Co. : "성검의 폭풍” ("Storm of Holy Swords")
    Lithuanian: Alma Littera "Kardų audra" ("A Storm of Swords").
    Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta (2013): "Stål og snø: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 1", "Blod og Gull: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 2" ("Steel and Snow: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 1, Blood and Gold: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 2)"
    Polish: Two volumes,Zysk i S-ka: "Nawałnica mieczy:Stal i Śnieg (I)", "Nawałnica mieczy: Krew i Złoto(II)" (A Storm of Swords:Steel and Snow", "A Storm of Swords:Blood and Gold")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("The Storm of Swords")
    European Portuguese: Two Volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("A Storm of Swords"), "A Glória dos Traidores" ("The Betrayer's Glory")
    Romanian: Nemira: "Iureșul săbiilor"
    Russian: AST: "Буря мечей" ("Storm of Swords").
    Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Олуја мачева Део први: Челик и снег"(A Storm of Swords First part: "Steel and snow"), "Олуја мачева Део други: Крв и Злато" (A Storm of Swords Second part: "Blood and Gold" )
    Slovenian: Vihra mečev ("A Storm of Swords")
    Spanish: Two volumes, Gilgamesh (2005): "Tormenta de espadas I", "Tormenta de espadas II" ("Storm of Swords I", "Storm of Swords II").
    Swedish: Forum: "Svärdets makt" ("The Sword's Power")
    Turkish: Two volumes, Epsilon Yayınevi: "Buz ve Ateşin Şarkısı III: Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım I & Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım II" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Ukrainian: KM Publishing (2015): "Буря мечів" ("A Storm of Swords")
    Vietnamese: Three Volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3A: Sự trở lại của Ngoại nhân", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3B: Nước mắt Sói Tuyết", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3C: Tử Hôn". ("Game of Thrones 3A: Return of the Others", "Game of Thrones 3B: Tears of Direwolf", "Game of Thrones 3C: Purple Wedding")

Reception

Publishers Weekly said the third volume was "one of the more rewarding examples of gigantism in contemporary fantasy. [...] The complexity of characters such as Daenerys, Arya and the Kingslayer will keep readers turning even the vast number of pages contained in this volume, for the author, like Tolkien or Jordan, makes us care about their fates. Those two fantasy greats are also evoked by Martin's ability to convey such sensual experiences as the heat of wildfire, the chill of ice, the smell of the sea and the sheer gargantuan indigestibility of the medieval banquet at its most excessive. Perhaps this saga doesn't go as far beyond the previous bounds of high fantasy as some claim, but for most readers it certainly goes far enough to command their attention."[11]

Martin was nominated for the 2001 Hugo Award for Best Novel, but lost to J. K. Rowling for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.[2][3] Afterwards he made this comment about his fans: "Eat your heart out, Rowling. Maybe you have billions of dollars and my Hugo, but you don't have readers like these."[12]
Awards and nominations
A Feast for Crows is the fourth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. The novel was first published on 17 October 2005 in the United Kingdom,[1] with a United States edition following on 8 November 2005.[2]

In May 2005, Martin announced that the "sheer size" of his still-unfinished manuscript for A Feast for Crows had led him and his publishers to split the narrative into two books.[3] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location, resulting in "two novels taking place simultaneously" with different casts of characters.[3] A Feast for Crows was published months later, and the concurrent novel A Dance with Dragons was released on July 12, 2011.[4] Martin also noted that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels.[3]

A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the sequence to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list,[5] a feat among fantasy writers only previously achieved by Robert Jordan[6][7][8][9][10] and Neil Gaiman.[11] In 2006 the novel was nominated for the Hugo Award, the Locus Award, and the British Fantasy Society Award.[12] It has since been adapted, along with A Dance With Dragons, for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, though elements of the novel appeared in the series' fourth and sixth seasons.
Plot summary
The War of the Five Kings is slowly coming to its end. Stannis Baratheon has gone to the aid of the Wall, where Jon Snow has become the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. King Tommen Baratheon, Joffrey's eight-year-old brother, now rules in King's Landing under his mother, Cersei Lannister. Brienne, the Maid of Tarth, is on a mission to find Sansa Stark, aided by Jaime Lannister. Sansa Stark is hiding in the Vale, protected by Petyr Baelish, who has murdered his wife Lysa Arryn and named himself Protector of the Vale and guardian of eight-year-old Lord Robert Arryn.
In the Seven Kingdoms
Prologue in Oldtown

Pate, a young apprentice at the Citadel in Oldtown, is studying to become a maester. He has stolen an important key to a depository of books and records at the request of a stranger in exchange for a reward; after turning over the key and receiving the reward, he dies abruptly.
King's Landing

Following the death and funeral of Tywin Lannister, Cersei's reign is marked by rampant cronyism, and her councils staffed with incompetent loyalists. She also disregards accurate advice by her uncle Kevan Lannister and her brother Jaime, alienating them both. Making matters worse is Cersei's increasing distrust of the Tyrells, particularly Margaery, whom Cersei implicates in a prophecy that Cersei herself will see her children crowned but all of them will die before her.

Her incompetent management raises the kingdom's debts to the Iron Bank of Braavos and the Faith of the Seven. When Cersei dismisses its representatives, the Iron Bank refuses to grant new loans and demands immediate repayment, nearly crippling the economy of Westeros. To settle the crown's debts to the Faith of the Seven, Cersei permits the restoration of that religion's military order, the Faith Militant, ignoring the danger to her own power. Hoping to weaken the Tyrells, Cersei dispatches Ser Loras Tyrell to besiege Stannis Baratheon's forces on Dragonstone; as a result, almost a thousand loyalists are killed, and Ser Loras is gravely injured. A scheme to falsely have the Faith put Margaery on trial for adultery backfires when the religious leadership imprisons Cersei herself on similar (correct) charges.
Riverlands

After a series of disagreements, Cersei dispatches Jaime to the Riverlands to re-establish control. He negotiates with Brynden "the Blackfish" Tully to surrender Riverrun in exchange for Edmure Tully's life. Though the siege ends bloodlessly, Brynden escapes, to Jaime's fury. He then receives word that Cersei, who has been imprisoned, wants him to defend her in a trial by combat; but learns that Tyrion's accusation of Lancel Lannister and Cersei was true (Lancel having been King Robert's true killer). Disgusted by the excessive loss of life and Cersei's paranoia, Jaime abandons her to her fate.

Brienne of Tarth's quest for Sansa leads her all over the Riverlands, where she observes the destruction caused by the war, and acquires Podrick Payne, former squire to Tyrion Lannister. She meets Ser Hyle, a knight whom she has met before, and Lord Randyll Tarly (Samwell's father), who insults her despite Ser Hyle's praise of her. Eventually she is captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners and sentenced to death by Catelyn Stark, who was resurrected three days after death by Beric Dondarrion, though at the cost of Dondarrion's life, and who has now assumed the name Lady Stoneheart. Catelyn offers to let her live if she agrees to kill Jaime Lannister (whom she believes played a role in Robb's death). When Brienne refuses to decide, she and some of her companions are sentenced to be hanged, at which she screams an undisclosed word. The author later revealed that the word was "sword", in response to Catelyn's ultimatum of "Sword or noose", which offered either Brienne's continued service to Catelyn herself, or hanging.
The Vale

In the Eyrie, Sansa poses as Petyr's daughter Alayne: befriending young Robert Arryn, managing the household, and receiving informal training in royal politics. During this time, Petyr appears to be carefully manipulating his murdered wife's former bannermen and securing control of the Protectorship of the Vale. He eventually reveals that he has betrothed Sansa to Harrold Hardyng, the next in line to Robert's title; when the sickly Robert dies, Petyr intends to reveal Sansa's identity and claim her family stronghold of Winterfell in her name.
Iron Islands

On the Iron Islands, Aeron Damphair calls a Kingsmoot to identify Balon Greyjoy's successor as king of the Iron Islands. Hotly contested by Balon's brother Victarion Greyjoy and daughter Asha Greyjoy, eventually his brother Euron Greyjoy is chosen as king for his promise to control dragons with an enchanted horn he possesses. The fleet of the Iron Men captures the Shield Islands at the mouth of the river Mander, threatening House Tyrell's seat at Highgarden. Victarion estimates that when the Redwyne fleet returns from the siege at Dragonstone it will retake the islands; and when Euron sends him east to woo Daenerys Targaryen on his behalf, to thus gain a claim to the Iron Throne, Victarion decides to woo her for himself instead.
Dorne

In Dorne, Doran Martell is confronted by three of his brother Oberyn's daughters, who want vengeance for their father's death. Because they are inciting the commonfolk, Doran has them imprisoned in the palace.

A bold attempt by Doran's daughter Arianne Martell and her lover, Ser Arys Oakheart of the Kingsguard, to crown Doran's ward Myrcella Baratheon as queen of Westeros under Dornish law, is thwarted by Doran. In the confusion, one of Arianne's co-conspirators, the knight Gerold "Darkstar" Dayne, attempts to kill Myrcella; she survives but her face is scarred, and Ser Arys is killed. This strains the new Dornish alliance with House Lannister and the Iron Throne. To his daughter, Doran reveals that her brother Quentyn has gone east to bring back "Fire and Blood".
In the East

Arriving in Braavos, Arya Stark finds her way to the House of Black and White, a temple associated with the assassins known as the Faceless Men. As a novice there, Arya attempts to master their belief that Faceless Men have no true identity by throwing all her treasures into the water (secretly keeping her sword, Needle) and posing as a girl called "Cat of the Canals". Her former identity asserts itself in the form of wolf dreams, and also when she kills Dareon, sworn brother of Samwell Tarly, for abandoning the Night's Watch. Having confessed this death, she is given a glass of warm milk as punishment. She wakes up the following morning blind.

Jon Snow has ordered Samwell Tarly to sail to the Citadel in Oldtown (via Braavos), to research the Others and become a Maester. Sam is accompanied by aging Maester Aemon, the wildling mother Gilly, her newborn baby, and sworn brother Dareon. The voyage across the Narrow Sea is underway before Sam realizes Jon swapped the sons of Gilly and Mance Rayder, to protect the Wildling "prince" from sacrifice by the priestess Melisandre. Aemon becomes sick and the party wait in Braavos for his health to improve. After a Summer Islander tells Aemon about the Targaryen dragons, Aemon decides that Daenerys has come to fulfill a prophecy. He dies shortly after they leave Braavos.

At the end of the novel, Samwell arrives at the Citadel to begin his training. He meets a fellow apprentice who introduces himself as Pate, connecting the prologue to the narrative.
Characters

The story is narrated from the point of view of 12 characters and a one-off prologue point of view. Unlike its predecessors, the fourth novel follows numerous minor characters as well.

    Prologue: Pate, a novice of the Citadel in Oldtown
    Cersei Lannister, The Queen Regent
    Ser Jaime Lannister, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard
    Brienne, Maid of Tarth, a young warrior woman searching for Sansa and Arya Stark
    Sansa Stark, pretending to be Petyr Baelish's daughter "Alayne Stone" (her later chapters are titled as such)
    Arya Stark, later referred to as "Cat of the Canals", beginning her training at the Temple of Him of Many Faces in the free city of Braavos
    Samwell Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch
    In the Iron Islands:
        The Prophet, The Drowned Man: Aeron "Damphair" Greyjoy, Self-proclaimed servant of the Drowned god, youngest of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers
        The Kraken's Daughter: Princess Asha Greyjoy, daughter of Late King Balon of the Iron Islands
        The Iron Captain, The Reaver: Prince Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron fleet, one of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers
    In Dorne:
        The Captain of Guards: Areo Hotah, Captain of the Guards to Prince Doran Martell of Dorne
        The Soiled Knight: Ser Arys Oakheart of the Kingsguard
        The Queenmaker, The Princess in the Tower: Arianne Martell, daughter of Prince Doran and heir to Dorne

Editions

Foreign-language editions

    Bulgarian: Бард: "Пир за Врани"
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Festí de corbs" ("Feast of crows")
    Chinese (Simplified): 重庆出版社(2008): "群鸦的盛宴" ("Feast for Crows").
    Chinese (Traditional): 高寶國際(2006): "群鴉盛宴" ("Feast for Crows").
    Croatian: "Gozba vrana" ("Crows' Feast")
    Czech: Talpress; "Hostina pro vrány" ("Feast for Crows")
    Danish: Kragernes rige ("The Kingdom of the Crows")
    Dutch: Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Een feestmaal voor kraaien" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Estonian: "Vareste pidusöök" ("Feast of Crows")
    Finnish: "Korppien kestit" ("Feast of Crows")
    French: Three Volumes, Hardcover: Pygmalion (2006-...): "Le chaos", "Les sables de Dorne", "Un Festin pour les Corbeaux" ("Chaos", "The Sands of Dorne", "A Feast For Crows").
    German: Single volume, Fantasy Productions (2006): "Krähenfest" ("Crow's Feast", to be released). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2006): "Zeit der Krähen", "Die dunkle Königin" ("Time of the Crows", "The Dark Queen").
    Greek: Anubis: "Βορά Ορνίων" ("Prey of Vultures")
    Hebrew: "משתה לעורבים א\ב" ("Feast for Crows pts. A/B")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Varjak lakomája" ("Feast of Crows")
    Italian: Two volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (Hardcover 2006, 2007 - Paperback 2007, 2008): "Il dominio della regina", "L'ombra della profezia" ("The Rule of the Queen", "The Shadow of the Prophecy").
    Japanese: Two volumes, hardcover : Hayakawa (2008), paperback : Hayakawa (2013): "乱鴉の饗宴" ("Feast of the War Crows") I and II
    Korean: Eun Haeng Namu Publishing Co. :"까마귀의 향연" ("Feast for Crows")
    Lithuanian: Alma Littera "Varnų puota" ("Crows' Feast")
    Norwegian: Two volumes, "Kråkenes gilde" (The Crows' Feast), "Jern og sand" (Iron and Sand)
    Polish: Two volumes, Zysk i S-ka: "Uczta dla wron: Cienie Śmierci", "Uczta dla wron: Sieć Spisków" ("A Feast for Crows: Shadows of Death", "A Feast for Crows: Web of Intrigues")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "O Festim dos Corvos" ("The Crows Feast")
    European Portuguese: Two volumes, Saída de Emergência: "O Festim de Corvos" ("A Feast for Crows"), "O Mar de Ferro" ("The Iron Sea")
    Romanian: Paperback 2009, Harcover 2011: "Festinul ciorilor" ("The Crows' Feast")
    Russian: AST: "Пир стервятников" ("Vultures' Feast").
    Serbian: Two Volumes, Лагуна: "Гозба за вране Део први", "Гозба за вране Део други" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Slovenian: Vranja gostija ("A Feast for Crows")
    Spanish: Gigamesh (2007): "Festín de Cuervos" ("Feast for Crows")
    Swedish: Forum bokförlag: "Kråkornas fest" ("The Crows' Feast")
    Turkish: Two volumes, Epsilon Yayınevi: "Buz ve Ateşin Şarkısı IV: Kargaların Ziyafeti - Kısım I & Kargaların Ziyafeti - Kısım II" ("A Feast for Crows")
    Ukrainian: KM Publishing (2016): "Бенкет круків" ("The Feast of Crows")
    Vietnamese: Two Volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 4A: Tiệc Quạ đen", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 4B: Lời Tiền tri". ("Game of Thrones 4A: A Feast of Crows", "Game of Thrones 4B: The Prophecy")

Publication

Martin released the first four "Iron Islands" chapters of A Feast for Crows as a novella called Arms of the Kraken, published in the 305th edition of Dragon magazine, published in May 2003.[13] Another chapbook featuring three Daenerys chapters was published for BookExpo 2005 although, following the geographical division of the book, these chapters were subsequently moved into the fifth volume in the series, A Dance with Dragons.

Martin originally planned for the fourth book to be called A Dance with Dragons with the story picking up five years after the events of A Storm of Swords (primarily to advance the ages of the younger characters). However, during the writing process it was discovered that this was leading to an overreliance on flashbacks to fill in the gap. After twelve months or so of working on the book, Martin decided to abandon much of what had previously been written and start again, this time picking up immediately after the end of A Storm of Swords. He announced this decision, along with the new title A Feast for Crows, at Worldcon in Philadelphia on September 1, 2001. He also announced that A Dance with Dragons would now be the fifth book in the sequence.[14]

In May 2005 Martin announced that his manuscript for A Feast for Crows had hit 1527 completed pages but still remained unfinished, with "another hundred or so pages of roughs and incomplete chapters, as well as other chapters sketched out but entirely unwritten."[3] As the size of the manuscript for 2000's A Storm of Swords, his previous novel, had been a problem for publishers around the world at 1521 pages, Martin and his publishers had decided to split the narrative planned for A Feast for Crows into two books.[3] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location:

    It was my feeling ... that we were better off telling all the story for half the characters, rather than half the story for all the characters. Cutting the novel in half would have produced two half-novels; our approach will produce two novels taking place simultaneously, but set hundreds or even thousands of miles apart, and involving different casts of characters (with some overlap).[3]

Martin noted that A Feast for Crows would focus on "Westeros, King's Landing, the riverlands, Dorne, and the Iron Islands," and that the next novel, A Dance with Dragons, would cover "events in the east and north."[3] Martin also added that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels.[3] A Feast for Crows was published months later on 17 October 2005,[1] over five years after the previous volume in the series, A Storm of Swords.[15] The parallel novel A Dance with Dragons was released on July 12, 2011.[4]
Release details

    2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224743-7, Pub date 17 October 2005, hardback
    2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-722463-X, Pub date ? ? 2005, hardback (presentation edition)
    2005, US, Spectra Books ISBN 0-553-80150-3, Pub date 8 November 2005, hardback
    2006, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224742-9, Pub date 25 April 2006, paperback

Reception

Though A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the sequence to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list,[5] it received more negative reviews in comparison with the previous novels in the series. Martin's decision to halve the plot in terms of character and location was highly controversial; many critics felt that this novel consisted of characters that people were less interested in. Publishers Weekly said, "Long-awaited doesn't begin to describe this fourth installment in bestseller Martin's staggeringly epic Song of Ice and Fire. [...]. This is not Act I Scene 4 but Act II Scene 1, laying groundwork more than advancing the plot, and it sorely misses its other half. The slim pickings here are tasty, but in no way satisfying."[16] Salon.com's Andrew Leonard said in 2011, "I don't care how good a writer you are: If you subtract your three strongest characters from your tale, you severely undermine the basis for why readers fell under your spell in the first place. It didn't work. But there was also a sense in A Feast of Crows that Martin had lost his way. The characters whose stories he did tell wandered back and forth across a landscape devastated by war and oncoming winter, but didn't seem to be headed anywhere in particular."[17] Remy Verhoeve of The Huffington Post noted in their 2011 A Dance with Dragons review that the fifth volume had to "repair some of the damage done by A Feast for Crows, which frankly felt as if it was written by a ghost writer at times." Both books had "the same structural problems", being "sprawling and incoherent", and in her opinion Feast has the less interesting characters.[18] The Atlantic's Rachael Brown said in their A Dance With Dragons review that Feast was "bleak and plodding" and "sorely missed" Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow.[19]
his article is about the novel. For the episode of the TV series, see The Dance of Dragons.
A Dance with Dragons A Dance With Dragons US.jpg
Author 	George R. R. Martin
Cover artist 	Larry Rostant
Country 	United States
Language 	English
Series 	A Song of Ice and Fire
Genre 	Fantasy
Published 	July 12, 2011
Publisher 	Voyager Books (UK)
Bantam Spectra (US)[1][2]
Media type 	Print (hardback & paperback)
Pages 	1040 (US Hardcover)
Award 	Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2012)
ISBN 	978-0553801477
OCLC 	191922936
Dewey Decimal
	813/.54
LC Class 	PS3563.A7239 D36 2011
Preceded by 	A Feast for Crows
Followed by 	The Winds of Winter (forthcoming)

A Dance with Dragons is the fifth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. In some areas the paperback edition was published in two parts titled Dreams and Dust and After the Feast. It was the first novel in the series to be published following the commencement of the HBO series adaptation, Game of Thrones, and runs to 1,040 pages.

On March 3, 2011, publishing imprint Bantam Spectra announced that the novel would be released on July 12, 2011.[1] Martin delivered the manuscript to his editor on April 27, 2011;[3] however, as early as 2006, Martin made sample chapters available on his website[4][5][6] and at Amazon.co.uk.[7] Additionally, the German branch of Amazon.com (Amazon.de) released a reported 180 copies two weeks early by mistake.[8] The US hardcover was officially published on July 12, 2011, having gone back to press for six printings (totaling more than 650,000 copies) prior to the 1,000+ page novel being available; 298,000 copies in print, digital, and audio formats were sold that first day alone, becoming publishing giant Random House's biggest book of 2011 and a runaway bestseller. The book was the second in the series to debut at the #1 position on the New York Times Best Seller list.[9] A few weeks after publication, A Dance with Dragons went on to be #1 on both Publishers Weekly and USA Today Bestsellers lists.

The novel, along with A Feast for Crows, has been adapted for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, although elements of the book have also appeared in the series' third, fourth and sixth seasons.
Plot summary
At the Wall

Would-be king Stannis Baratheon and his forces occupy the Wall as Jon Snow, the newly elected 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, sends Samwell Tarly to the Citadel in Oldtown to be trained as a Maester. Sam is accompanied by the ancient Maester Aemon, the wildling girl Gilly, and the newborn son of the wildling leader Mance Rayder, whom Jon has switched with Gilly's baby to save the wildling "prince" from sacrifice by Stannis' red priestess Melisandre. Janos Slynt refuses to acknowledge Jon's authority, and after three public warnings, Jon personally beheads Slynt for disobedience. Though intended to solidify Jon's new position as Lord Commander, it only sows more discord with Slynt's faction. Stannis executes Mance for refusing to submit to him. Jon brokers a truce with Tormund Giantsbane, the leader of the surviving wildlings, allowing them through the Wall and into Westeros in exchange for wildling assistance in defending the Wall against the Others. This creates further unrest among the brothers of the Night's Watch, who have considered the wildlings their enemies for centuries.

Tycho Nestoris, a representative of the Iron Bank of Braavos, arrives at the Wall seeking Stannis, who has already marched south with his army. The Iron Bank now supports Stannis' claim to the Iron Throne since the regent Cersei Lannister has refused to repay the crown's debts. Jon negotiates a loan with which the Night's Watch can buy food to survive the winter. After recurring visions, Melisandre warns Jon that he is in danger from enemies within the Watch, and that a Northern girl is in trouble. Mance is revealed to be alive thanks to Melisandre's magical trickery, and he is sent to Winterfell to rescue the girl, who Jon believes is his half-sister, Arya Stark. However, the girl in Melisandre's visions, fleeing to the Wall, turns out to be Alys Karstark, daughter of the deceased Lord Rickard Karstark. She reveals Rickard's uncle Arnolf Karstark, Castellan of Karhold, declared for Stannis in the hope her brother Harrion Karstark, a hostage of the Lannisters, would be executed. Arnolf intends to force Alys to marry his son Cregan so his branch of the family can take control of Karhold, and also plans to betray Stannis to the Boltons. When Cregan arrives at the Wall, Jon imprisons him and arranges Alys' marriage to a Wildling leader Sigorn, the Magnar of Thenn, partially to aid the Wildlings' integration into the North.

Jon receives a taunting letter from Ramsay Bolton, who claims to have crushed Stannis' army at Winterfell. Ramsay demands that Jon hand over to him Stannis' wife and daughter or be killed, and Ramsay also insists that he will deliver Theon Greyjoy and Arya, neither of whom Jon has seen in years. Jon decides that he will seek out and kill Ramsay himself, asking for volunteers from the Watch to accompany him. Melisandre's prediction comes true as Jon is stabbed by Bowen Marsh and several of his own men.

Meanwhile, Bran Stark's search for the "Three-Eyed Crow" beyond the Wall leads him to the last surviving Children of the Forest, the non-human natives of Westeros. In the Children's cave, Bran and his companions meet the Three-Eyed Crow—the last "greenseer"—an ancient man intertwined with the roots of a weirwood tree. Using greensight, Bran witnesses his father Ned Stark at Winterfell's godswood in the past, and communicates with Theon Greyjoy at the same location in the present.
Across the Narrow Sea
In the Free Cities

Having killed his father Tywin, Tyrion Lannister is smuggled to Pentos by Varys, where he is sheltered by Illyrio Mopatis. Tyrion is sent south with a party to aid Daenerys Targaryen in claiming the Iron Throne; on the journey, it is revealed that Varys and Illyrio have hidden the presumed dead Aegon Targaryen, son of the late Prince Rhaegar, to eventually install him as king of Westeros. In the intervening years, they have made a contract with the Golden Company, the largest and most skilled mercenary army in the Free Cities. Tyrion advises young Aegon that Daenerys will not respect him unless he has made his conquests first, and persuades Aegon to launch an early invasion of the Seven Kingdoms, without the aid of Daenerys and her dragons. After traveling with Aegon across Essos, Tyrion is kidnapped by Jorah Mormont, who intends to deliver him to Daenerys as a means to get back into her favor. Jorah, Tyrion, and a female dwarf named Penny are shipwrecked and sold by slavers to a Yunkish merchant. At Meereen, Tyrion escapes in the mass confusion of the plague ravaging the Yunkish army, joins the Second Sons mercenary group, and secures their support for Daenerys.

In Braavos, Arya is an acolyte of the guild of assassins known as the Faceless Men. Temporarily afflicted with blindness at their hands, she develops her sense of hearing, and realizes that she can "see" through cats the same way she could with her pet direwolf, Nymeria. After successfully fending off an attack by the master of the temple with a stick sword, Arya's sight is restored. She is magically given the face of one of the temple petitioners, who come there seeking a quiet death, and is tasked with assassinating a corrupt merchant. After doing so, Arya is declared an apprentice of the Faceless Men, to be sent to another assassin to continue her training.
Slaver's Bay

In the far east, Daenerys has conquered the city of Meereen, but struggles to maintain peace within the city while also trying to prevent military defeat from external forces. A plague known as the bloody flux or "pale mare" ravages the city. Daenerys' dragons have become increasingly dangerous in their maturity, and she reluctantly confines them in a dungeon for the safety of her people. Drogon, the largest, evades capture and flies off. Despite her sexual relationship with the mercenary Daario Naharis, Daenerys marries the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq to secure an alliance that will hopefully appease the violent Meereenese resistance group called the Sons of the Harpy. At Hizdahr's insistence, she reopens the fighting pits as a gesture of good will to the citizens, but the noise and carnage attract Drogon. Two hundred people are trampled in the resulting panic or killed by the dragon, at which point Daenerys climbs on Drogon to calm him. He flies off with a helpless Daenerys in tow. Hizdahr is soon implicated in an attempt to poison Daenerys at the pits, and her advisor Barristan Selmy removes Hizdahr from power and prepares for battle with the armies outside Meereen. Hoping to prove his prowess to Daenerys by riding one of her remaining dragons, the Dornish prince Quentyn Martell is killed in the attempt, and both dragons are unleashed upon the city. Drogon flies Daenerys to the Dothraki Sea and leaves her stranded. She encounters the khalasar of Khal Jhaqo, a former subordinate to her late husband Khal Drogo, who betrayed her after Drogo's death. Meanwhile, Theon's uncle Victarion Greyjoy sails for Meereen, intending to fight off the slavers' alliance besieging the city and then marry Daenerys. He plans to use her dragons to overthrow his brother, King Euron.
In the Seven Kingdoms
The North

In the North, Stannis Baratheon has installed himself at the Wall and attempts to win the support of the northmen; the Lannisters have installed Roose Bolton as Warden of the North; and much of the west coast is under occupation by the Ironborn. Plotting against Stannis, the Karstarks advise him to march on House Bolton's stronghold, the Dreadfort, where the Boltons and Karstarks have laid a trap for him. On the advice of Jon Snow, Stannis instead acquires the support of the Northern hill clans and captures Deepwood Motte from Asha Greyjoy, whereupon House Glover and House Mormont join Stannis' army.

Lord Wyman Manderly pretends to execute Davos Seaworth to ensure the release of his heir Wylis from Lannister captivity. When Wylis is freed, in retribution for the murder of Wyman's other son, Wendel, at the Red Wedding, the Manderlys are heavily implied to discreetly murder the three Freys who returned his bones, putting them in pies to be fed to their kin. The Manderlys and other Northern vassals intend to feign submission to the Boltons, Freys and Lannisters while plotting revenge. Revealing to Davos that young Rickon Stark is in hiding on the remote island of Skagos, Manderly pledges the allegiance of his forces to Stannis if the famed smuggler Davos can retrieve Rickon and unite the Starks' supporters around him.

Theon is revealed to be a prisoner in the dungeon of the Dreadfort, mutilated and driven nearly insane by torture at Ramsay's hands. Renamed "Reek" by Ramsay and kept like a dog, Theon is terrified of the sadistic Ramsay. Ramsay's father Roose arrives with "Arya Stark", whom Reek recognizes as Sansa Stark's friend Jeyne Poole. Ramsay and the false Arya are wed at Winterfell, with Reek forced to assume his previous identity of Theon to give away the bride and help reassure the North that Jeyne is Arya. After the wedding, Ramsay repeatedly abuses Jeyne physically and sexually. Several murders in the castle increase the already high tensions between House Frey and the northern Houses present, with Roose and his vassals desperately trying to keep the peace. He is finally forced to send the Frey and Manderly forces out of Winterfell after a confrontation between them leads to multiple deaths. In Winterfell's godswood, Reek begs for forgiveness and hears Bran's voice calling him "Theon", which restores his sanity. He is approached by a disguised Mance and compelled to help him free the false Arya, but Mance and his spearwives are left behind when the alarm is raised. Theon and Jeyne escape by leaping from the castle wall into the snow, and are then captured by Stannis' forces nearby under Mors Umber. Theon is reunited with his sister Asha, who does not initially recognize him. Stannis decides to confront the Boltons at Winterfell, but his army becomes snowbound.
The Stormlands

Tyrion convinces Aegon that Daenerys would rather learn of her nephew from his conquest than by his demanding recognition. Aegon, his guardian Jon Connington, and the Golden Company, capture four castles with little resistance, including the Connington ancestral seat of Griffin's Roost, with the intention of marching on Storm's End, the seat of House Baratheon. Meanwhile, Connington is secretly succumbing to the infectious disease "greyscale".
Dorne

Ser Balon Swann of the Kingsguard presents the skull of Gregor Clegane to Prince Doran Martell and his court as justice for the murder of Doran's sister Elia. Doran agrees that Myrcella Baratheon may return to the Westerosi capital King's Landing with her betrothed, his son Prince Trystane, but reveals to his family that Cersei intends to murder Trystane. Doran summons the three eldest of the 'Sand Snakes', his late brother Oberyn's bastard daughters, and sets each a task: Obara Sand to distract Ser Balon by leading his hunt for Ser Gerold Dayne, the knight who previously tried to kill Myrcella; Nymeria Sand to assume the seat offered to Dorne on the Small Council; and Tyene Sand to infiltrate the Great Sept of Baelor and ingratiate herself with the High Septon.
Riverlands

Having negotiated the surrender of Riverrun, Jaime Lannister offers peace to House Blackwood, the last of Robb Stark's allies still at arms, which Lord Tytos Blackwood agrees to, giving one of his sons Hoster as a hostage. The Stark-Lannister war in the Riverlands is nominally over, but brigands holding no allegiance now roam most of the broken countryside, and Brynden "The Blackfish" Tully is still missing. Jaime sets about restoring order, and follows when Brienne of Tarth tells him that she has found the missing Sansa Stark, who she claims is in danger from Sandor Clegane.
King's Landing

In order to gain release from her imprisonment, the dowager queen Cersei confesses to several of the lesser charges against her, but does not confess to having murdered her husband King Robert Baratheon and many others, nor that her children are the product of incest. As a condition of her release, she is stripped naked and forced to march under escort from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep. Cersei tries to maintain her pride but the smallfolk pelt her with rotten vegetables and insults, by the end she is crying and crawling on her hands and knees. Meanwhile, the ex-maester Qyburn has perfected "Ser Robert Strong", an eight-foot-tall figure encased in armor, assigned as Cersei's champion in trial by combat. Having taken control of the regency of Cersei's son, the young king Tommen, her uncle Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle attempt to undo the damage caused by Cersei's incompetent rule. Later, Kevan finds Pycelle murdered, and is subsequently shot himself with a crossbow by Varys. Varys reveals that he has been plotting for years for the Lannisters to destroy themselves so that the Targaryens may return to power, telling Kevan that Aegon has been shaped to be an ideal ruler. The book ends with Varys sending his "little birds" (child spies) to finish Kevan.
Extras

In addition to the maps published in previous books, the book includes a new map of the previously-unmapped area of the Free Cities on the eastern continent. Like the previous four volumes in the Ice and Fire series, the book includes an appendix with a complete list of characters.
Characters

The story is narrated from the point of view of 18 different characters,[10] including two minor one-off point-of-view (POV) characters featured in the prologue and epilogue.[11] All but two POV characters were identified before the book's release.

In the North:

    Prologue: Varamyr Sixskins, a skinchanger and one of the surviving wildlings north of the Wall.[12]
    Jon Snow, the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch and bastard son of Eddard Stark.
    Bran Stark, rightful heir to his brother, the late Robb Stark. Seeking an old power beyond the Wall, believed dead by his own family.
    Davos Seaworth, former smuggler and Hand of the King to Stannis Baratheon. Has recently learned to read, sent to negotiate with White Harbor.
    Reek, the Prince of Winterfell, the Turncloak, a Ghost in Winterfell: Theon Greyjoy, presumed-dead son of recently deceased King Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, a captive of Ramsay Bolton and now tortured, starved and barely sane.
    The Wayward Bride, the King's Prize, the Sacrifice: Asha Greyjoy, niece of King Euron Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, fled the Iron Islands after her uncle's coronation.
    Lady Melisandre, a shadow-binder from Asshai and a devoted priestess to the red god R'hllor, advisor to Stannis.

In the eastern continent of Essos:

    Daenerys Targaryen, heir to the Targaryen dynasty which ruled Westeros for 300 years until their deposition 15 years before the first novel. Self-proclaimed Queen of Westeros, she now rules the city of Meereen.
    Tyrion Lannister, dwarf and uncle to the King Tommen of Westeros, a fugitive wanted for kinslaying and regicide. Recently fled the Seven Kingdoms.
    The Merchant's Man, the Windblown, the Spurned Suitor, the Dragontamer: Quentyn Martell, eldest son of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne, traveling into the East on a mission for his father.
    The Lost Lord, the Griffin Reborn: Jon Connington, one of the former Hands of the King to Aerys Targaryen and one of Prince Rhaegar's closest friends. Exiled, and falsely believed dead. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process.
    The Queensguard, the Discarded Knight, the Kingbreaker, the Queen's Hand: Ser Barristan Selmy, the former Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, and the first of Daenerys's Queensguard.
    The Iron Suitor: Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron fleet, recently gone on a quest to find Daenerys and use her for the Ironborn's own ends.
    The Blind Girl, the Ugly Little Girl: Arya Stark, hiding in the Free City of Braavos, where she has taken on the identity of the "Cat of the Canals" and continues her training as an assassin by the House of Black and White (The Faceless Men).

In the South:

    The Watcher: Areo Hotah, Captain of Doran Martell's guard.
    Ser Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard; currently occupying the lands around Riverrun.
    Cersei Lannister, the Queen Regent, currently imprisoned in a tower cell, awaiting trial.
    Epilogue: Ser Kevan Lannister, head of House Lannister in light of his brother's death, and current regent to King Tommen. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process.

Chapters for several POVs, which may include Sansa Stark, Samwell Tarly, Aeron Damphair, Arianne Martell, and Brienne of Tarth were written for the book, but they will instead tentatively appear in the next book, The Winds of Winter.
Writing
Early development

A Dance with Dragons was originally intended to be the title of the second novel in the sequence, when Martin still envisioned the series as a trilogy. Some early US editions of A Game of Thrones (1996) list A Dance of Dragons as the forthcoming second volume in the series. The 1998 anthology Legends, which features the novella The Hedge Knight from the same universe, listed A Dance of Dragons as the third installment of a four-book series.

In May 2005 Martin announced that the "sheer size" of his still-unfinished manuscript for A Feast for Crows had led him and his publishers to split the narrative into two books.[13] Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location, resulting in "two novels taking place simultaneously" with different casts of characters.[13] Published in 2005, A Feast for Crows is narrated primarily by characters in the South of the Seven Kingdoms and in the new locations of the Iron Islands and Dorne. A Dance with Dragons features characters in the North and across the narrow sea, although Jaime Lannister, Cersei Lannister, Arya Stark, Areo Hotah and Victarion and Asha Greyjoy appear in both volumes.

Approximately one-third of the published A Dance with Dragons consists of material that had been written for the pre-split A Feast for Crows, although much of this has been rewritten by Martin.[14]

In 2009, Martin confirmed that, contrary to earlier statements, Sansa Stark would not appear in A Dance with Dragons; Sansa chapters initially slated for the novel have instead been pushed back to The Winds of Winter, which is planned to be the sixth book in the series.[15] In early 2010, Martin noted that his intent for A Dance with Dragons was for the first 800 manuscript pages to cover the alternate characters in the same time span as A Feast for Crows, and that "Everything that follows is post-Feast, so that's where some of the cast from the last book start popping up again."[16] Stating that "I wanted to resolve at least a few of the cliffhangers from Feast," Martin also mentioned the possibility that some of his finished chapters might get pushed to the next novel, The Winds of Winter, depending on the length of the finished manuscript for A Dance with Dragons.[16]
Road to publication

Despite original, optimistic predictions of possible completion in late 2006, Martin completed the novel in April 2011, nearly five years later. During this period, Martin's blog featured sporadic updates on his progress, and in January 2008 he posted an update affirming his vigilant commitment to finishing the novel.[17] In early 2008, publisher Spectra Books (a division of Random House) announced that A Dance with Dragons would be released on September 30, 2008,[18] but Martin stated this would only be possible if he finished writing by the end of June, before his trip to Spain and Portugal;[19] he did not meet his goal.[20]

On February 19, 2009, Martin posted on his website: "I am trying to finish the book by June. I think I can do that. If I do, A Dance with Dragons will likely be published in September or October."[15] On June 22, 2009, the author expressed "guarded optimism" with respect to his progress on the novel, while still not confirming a publication date.[21] When asked in a July 2009 interview with FREE! Magazine how the book was going, Martin stated, "It is going pretty well, actually. I am hoping to finish it by September or October; that is my goal."[22] On October 6, 2009, Martin said that his working manuscript for A Dance With Dragons had just exceeded 1,100 pages of completed chapters, plus "considerably more in partials, fragments, and roughs."[23] He noted that this made the upcoming novel longer than his earlier books A Game of Thrones and A Feast for Crows, and nearly as long as A Clash of Kings.[23]

On March 2, 2010, Martin remarked that he had reached 1,311 manuscript pages, making Dance the second-longest novel in the series at that point, behind only the 1,521-page manuscript of A Storm of Swords.[24] On July 8, 2010, Martin spoke at a conference and confirmed the current length of the book to be 1,400 manuscript pages. He expressed his disappointment that he was unable to completely finish the novel by the conference, although he would not speculate how soon the book would be completed after his return home on July 11.[11] At the same conference, Martin also confirmed that he has written one Sansa, one Arya, and two Arianne chapters for the planned sixth novel, Winds of Winter, and had transferred two Cersei chapters from that book into A Dance with Dragons.[11] On August 7, 2010, Martin confirmed that he had completed eight POVs, excluding the prologue and epilogue.[25]

At the New York Comic Con on October 10, 2010, Spectra senior editor Anne Groell announced that Martin had only five chapters remaining to finish, with sections of the chapters already completed. She stated her desire to have the manuscript completed by December.[26] In a December 2010 interview with Bear Swarm, Martin stated that he almost had A Dance With Dragons completed.[27]

On March 3, 2011, the publisher announced that the novel, though at that point still not completed, would be officially published on July 12, 2011.[1][2] Martin claimed this July 2011 publication date was different from the previous publication dates mentioned, in that this was "real", as opposed to earlier "wishful thinking, boundless optimism, cockeyed dreams, [and] honest mistakes".[28] On March 12, he revealed that the unfinished manuscript had exceeded A Storm of Swords in length, making it the longest volume in the entire series.[29] On March 27, he announced that the manuscript had exceeded 1,600 pages.[30] On April 27, 2011, it was announced that Martin had completed A Dance with Dragons.[31][32] Almost a month later, on May 20, 2011, Martin further announced that after incorporating requested changes made by his book editor and her staff copy-editors, suggested final draft notes from trusted friends, and his own final "sweat" (a line-by-line reread done to tighten and eliminate any unnecessary "fat" remaining in the manuscript), that the final draft had been reduced to 1,510 pages; this made Dragons the second-longest novel, by a narrow margin, to volume three, A Storm of Swords. The novel was now ready to meet its announced July 12, 2011 release date.

On June 29, 2011, Martin announced that Amazon Germany had mistakenly released 180 copies of the novel early and requested that those who held copies not spoil the book for fans who had to wait. Several A Song of Ice and Fire websites put an embargo in place on their forums with the same intent.[8]
Editions

Foreign-language editions

    Bulgarian: Бард: "Танц с Дракони" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Catalan: Alfaguara: "Dansa amb dracs" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Chinese (traditional): Three volumes, "與龍共舞" 上, 中 and 下
    Croatian: Two volumes, Algoritam: "Ples zmajeva" ("A Dance of Dragons")
    Czech: Talpress: "Tanec s draky" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Danish: "En dans med drager" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Dutch: Two volumes, Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Oude vetes, Nieuwe strijd", "Zwaarden tegen draken" ("Old Feuds, New Battle", "Swords Against Dragons")
    Finnish: Two volumes: "Lohikäärmetanssi" ("Dragondance") 1 and 2
    French: Three volumes, Pygmalion: "Le Bûcher d'un roi", "Les dragons de Meereen", "Une danse avec les dragons" ("The Stake/Pyre of a King", "The Dragons of Meereen", "A Dance with Dragons")
    German: FanPro (2012): "Drachenreigen" ("Dragons' Round"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2012): "Der Sohn des Greifen", "Ein Tanz mit Drachen" ("The Son of the Griffin", "A Dance with Dragons")
    Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Το Κάλεσμα της Φλόγας", "Το Σπαθί στο Σκοτάδι" ("Call of the Flame", "The Sword in the Darkness")
    Hebrew: "ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק א - חלומות ואבק, ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק ב - לאחר המשתה" ("Dance with Dragons Part I - Dreams and Dust, Dancing with Dragons Part II - After the Feast")
    Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Sárkányok tánca" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2011, 2012): "I guerrieri del ghiaccio", "I fuochi di Valyria", "La danza dei draghi" ("The Warriors of Ice", "The Fires of Valyria", "The Dance of Dragons")
    Japanese: Hardcover : Three volumes, Hayakawa (2013): "竜との舞踏" ("Dance with Dragons") I, II and III, paperback : Hayakawa (2016), I, II and III
    Latvian: "Deja ar Pūķiem" ("A Dance with Dragons") [33]
    Lithuanian: Two volumes: "Šokis su Drakonais: Sapnai ir Dulkės", "Šokis su Drakonais: Po Puotos" ("Dance with Dragons: Dreams and the Dust", "Dance with Dragons: After the Feast")
    Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta: "Drømmer og støv", "Dragenes dans" ("Dreams and Dust", "Dance of the Dragons")
    Polish: "Taniec ze smokami" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Dança dos Dragões" ("The Dance of Dragons")
    European Portuguese: Two volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Dança dos Dragões", "Os Reinos do Caos" ("A Dance of Dragons", "The Kingdom of Chaos")
    Romanian: Nemira: "Dansul dragonilor" ("The Dance of the Dragons")
    Russian: AST: "Танец с драконами" ("Dance with Dragons")
    Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Плес са змајевима Део први: Снови и прах", "Плес са змајевима Део други: После гозбе" ("A Dance with Dragons Part I: Dreams and Dust", "A Dance with Dragons Part II: After the Feast")
    Slovenian: "Ples z zmaji" ("A Dance with Dragons")
    Spanish: Ediciones Gigamesh: "Danza de dragones" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Swedish: "Drakarnas dans" ("Dance of the Dragons")
    Turkish: "Ejderhaların Dansı" ("Dance of Dragons")
    Vietnamese: Three volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5A: Đánh thức Rồng Thiêng", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5B: Trấn thủ thành Mereen", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5C: Vũ điệu Rồng Thiêng". ("Game of Thrones 5A: Awake Dragon", "Game of Thrones 5B: Defense on Mereen", "Game of Thrones 5C: Dance of Dragons")

Reception
Critical response

The Atlantic's Rachael Brown found A Dance with Dragons "infinitely more satisfying than its predecessor, 2005's bleak and plodding A Feast for Crows. The aspects of Martin's work that have endeared him to fans are abundant here – rich world building, narrative twists and turns, and gritty depictions of the human struggle for power. Characters who were sorely missed in Feast – Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow – make up more than a third of the novel, and Martin is wise enough to give us at least a chapter from (almost) everyone else. Weaknesses that have plagued Martin's previous books are also present: too much repetition, unexceptional prose, and characters who use the same idioms (and have sex in exactly the same manner) no matter their ethnicity, social class, or continent. But while A Dance with Dragons cries out for better editing, it remains entirely engrossing. Martin has hidden so many clues and red herrings throughout his previous volumes that it is a thrill to see certain pieces fall into place."[34]

Remy Verhoeve of The Huffington Post said, "A Dance with Dragons is just a book, of course. It is not the Second Coming or anything. And I understand that the author must feel a lot of pressure concerning this one (he should). It's late and it has to repair some of the damage done by A Feast for Crows, which frankly felt as if it was written by a ghost writer at times. Finally it is here, and some of the things we've been wondering about for more than a decade are actually revealed (not everything, but at least some things). It has the same structural problems as the previous book; it is sprawling and incoherent at times, but at least the characters are more interesting than in the previous installment. It does feel like I'm reading a bunch of separate stories within the same setting–the chapters are told through the eyes of various characters–but that doesn't really bother me as I love the setting and like to see it through various points of view. Theories that have been bandied about online for the last ten years mostly come true in this book, so in that respect the novel isn't shocking but neither is it disappointing. Martin also manages to put in a few twists, but ends the book much like he did the previous one with cliffhangers instead of wrapping things up a little better so the next long wait won't hurt so much."[35]

David Orr of The New York Times said, "A Dance With Dragons comes in at roughly 9,574,622,012 pages, and smart money says the final two books in the series will make this one look like 'The Old Man and the Sea'. Such length isn't necessary, and it hurts Martin's prose and his plot mechanics. Tyrion 'waddles' at least 12 times here, and even if we suppose the unflattering word reflects Tyrion's contempt for his own awkward gait, it seems unlikely he would indulge this contempt when he's, say, fighting for his life. Similarly, when your novel's terrain stretches across hundreds of miles and your world lacks jet propulsion, as an author you face some basic problems of transportation that can result in conveyance via Rube Goldberg."[36]

Time's James Poniewozik found a possible "weakness to the early Meereen sections [by] marking time (and making Dany uncharacteristically indecisive) to allow time for all the pieces to fall into place" and said, "All this makes for a thousand-page book that feels half as long, that moves dextrously, answers key questions and gobsmacks you with convincing feints and change-ups. As in AFFC, there are sections that feel like they could have used an editor. In some chapters you suddenly find yourself in a strange land with a character you have little attachment to, wondering where this thread is going, as if you had stayed too long at a party after the friends you came with have left.[37]

The Washington Post's Bill Sheehan said, "Filled with vividly rendered set pieces, unexpected turnings, assorted cliffhangers and moments of appalling cruelty, A Dance With Dragons is epic fantasy as it should be written: passionate, compelling, convincingly detailed and thoroughly imagined. Despite a number of overtly fantastic elements (dragons, seers, shape shifters and sorcerers), the book — and the series as a whole — feels grounded in the brutal reality of medieval times and has more in common with the Wars of the Roses than it does with The Lord of the Rings. The result is a complex summer blockbuster with brains and heart, a book with rare — and potentially enormous — appeal.[38]

Megan Wasson of The Christian Science Monitor said, "A Dance with Dragons may well be one of the best books in the five-book series so far. Martin's prose is concise but pithy, begging to be devoured over and over again. All the fans' favorite characters make an appearance, unlike in the last book. But what truly sets this book above some of the others in the series is Martin's ability to keep his readers on their toes and the edges of their seats. No character, no matter how likeable and seemingly important, is ever safe from Martin's pen (remember Ned Stark?), and on the other hand, no one can ever be truly pronounced dead. What you thought was going to happen after reading Books No. 1, 2, and even 3 and 4, now clearly will not happen, and that's where Martin's strength lies."[39]
The Winds of Winter is the forthcoming sixth novel in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin.

The previous installment, A Dance with Dragons, covered less story than Martin intended, excluding at least one planned large battle sequence and leaving several character threads ending in cliffhangers.[1] Martin intends to resolve these storylines "very early" in The Winds of Winter, saying "I'm going to open with the two big battles that I was building up to, the battle in the ice and the battle at Meereen—the battle of Slaver's Bay. And then take it from there."[2]

A Victarion Greyjoy chapter will begin five minutes after the end of A Dance with Dragons, taking place on the eve of the Iron Islanders' arrival in Slaver's Bay.[3] Arianne Martell sample chapters that Martin released on his website showed her heading for Griffin's Roost to see the young man who is calling himself Aegon.[4][5]

Martin said in March 2012 that the final two novels will take readers farther north than any of the previous books, and that the Others will appear in the book.[2]
Viewpoint characters

George R. R. Martin has confirmed that the following characters have point-of-view chapters in The Winds of Winter:

    Sansa Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter titled Alayne appeared on Martin's website in April 2015.[7]
    Arya Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter titled Mercy appeared on Martin's website in March 2014.[8][9]
    Arianne Martell: Two chapters were removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010,[6] and one sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in January 2013.[4] The latter chapter was read at Harbour Front Literaturfestival in June 2015.[10] Martin read from both chapters at MystiCon in February 2016.[11] In May 2016, Martin replaced the 2015 sample chapter titled Alayne with the first Arianne Martell chapter he has read from at MystiCon.[12]
    Aeron Greyjoy: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in July 2010.[13] A chapter titled The Forsaken was read in May 2016 at Balticon. It was written in, or before, 2011 but there was no confirmation that this was the chapter removed from A Dance with Dragons.[14]
    Theon Greyjoy: One sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in December 2011.[15][16] It also appears in the UK paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons (part two).
    Victarion Greyjoy: Portions of one chapter were first read at TIFF Bell Lightbox in March 2012.[3]
    Tyrion Lannister: One chapter was read at Eastercon in April 2012,[17] and another one at Worldcon in August 2013,[18] the second of which was later published in the official iOS app on March 20, 2014.[19]
    Barristan Selmy: One chapter was released in the 2013 U.S. paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons.[20] In 2013 Martin read from 2 chapters at Boskone.[21][better source needed]
    Areo Hotah: Martin confirmed on his blog that Areo Hotah will return as a point of view character.[22]
    Cersei Lannister: Reportedly confirmed at Balticon 2016.[23][better source needed]

George R. R. Martin confirmed that there were no new viewpoints intended for The Winds of Winter.[24] In addition, he teased at the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con that Jeyne Westerling, Robb Stark's widow, will appear in the prologue chapter, but did not reveal who will be the POV character.[25]
Background and publication
Chapters

The Winds of Winter[6] was originally intended, in the very early stages of the series, to be the final installment of A Song of Ice and Fire (then conceived as a trilogy).[26] Following his expansion of the series, Martin eventually concluded it would be succeeded by one final novel, A Dream of Spring.[27] By June 2010, Martin had finished four chapters for The Winds of Winter from the viewpoints of Sansa Stark, Arya Stark, and Arianne Martell.[6] In July 2010, he added an Aeron Greyjoy chapter that had been moved from A Dance with Dragons to The Winds of Winter, accumulating around 100 completed manuscript pages.[13] Following the publication of A Dance with Dragons in the summer of 2011, Martin announced his return to writing the series in January 2012,[1] having spent the intervening time on his U.S. and overseas book publicity tours and attending various conventions. He continued to work, with his two co-authors Elio Garcia and Linda Antonsson, on the planned illustrated series companion guide The World of Ice & Fire concordance and Westeros history, which at one time he wanted to have completed by the end of 2011. He also worked on a Westeros story, the fourth Tales of Dunk and Egg novella, that will eventually find anthology publication elsewhere. A year after that eventual publication, the story and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales will be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel.[28]

In December 2011, Martin posted a Theon Greyjoy viewpoint chapter from The Winds of Winter; he also announced that another sample chapter would be included at the end of the North American paperback version of A Dance with Dragons,[2][29] which was originally expected to be released in summer 2012,[2] but was released on October 29, 2013.[30] (International paperback editions of A Dance with Dragons published a year earlier did not include a new, as yet unpublished sample chapter.)[31] In the first quarter of 2012, Martin read new chapters of other characters at public events, including the chapters of Victarion Greyjoy and Tyrion Lannister.[17] Martin continued work editing anthologies and completing a large, highly detailed series atlas The Lands of Ice and Fire, which was published in October 2012.[32][33] Martin published another sample chapter from Arianne Martell's POV on his website in January 2013.[4] On March 27, ten days before the Game of Thrones season four premiere, Martin posted a chapter on his website, titled Mercy. Martin said the new chapter is actually an old one, though never published nor publicly read.[8] In April 2015, Martin posted a Sansa Stark viewpoint chapter from The Winds of Winter titled Alayne.[7] In May 2016, Martin replaced this chapter with an Arianne Martell chapter he had read from at Mysticon,[12] and an Aeron Greyjoy chapter that was removed from A Dance with Dragons was read at Balticon.

As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]

As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.[40]

In January 2014, Martin's UK publisher, Jane Johnson, declared on Twitter that the book would "certainly" not be published before 2015.[41] In September 2014 Johnson stated that the book was "not a 2015 release",[42] a statement she repeated in January 2015.[43][44] In April 2015 Martin commented on his blog that The Winds of Winter will not be eligible for the 2016 Hugo Award which is awarded for science fiction or fantasy works of the previous year[45] but he also said he would like to have it published before the sixth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones (which would cover material from the book) aired in 2016.[46][47] In Autumn 2015, statements made by the Spanish editor and the Polish translator of the novel indicated that it was expected to be published in 2016.[48][49][50][51] In September 2014, Walt Hickey of FiveThirtyEight[52] and Christopher Ingraham of the Washington Post[53] estimated the release date sometime between 2015 and 2018, based on extrapolation of Martin's writing pace.

In early January 2016, Martin confirmed on his Live Journal that he had not met an end-of-year deadline that he had established with his publisher for release of the book before the sixth season of the HBO show. He added that there was "a lot still left to write" and that completion of the book was "months away still... if the writing goes well". Martin also revealed there had been a previous deadline of October 2015 that he had considered achievable in May 2015, and that in September 2015 he had still considered the end-of-year deadline achievable. He further confirmed that some of the plot of the book might be revealed in the upcoming season of Game of Thrones[54] but one of the showrunners, David Benioff, claimed that while certain key elements would be the same, the show would diverge from the book in many respects.[55] In February 2016, Martin stated that he had dropped all his editing projects except for Wild Cards, and that he would not be writing any teleplays, screenplays, short stories, introductions or forewords before delivering The Winds of Winter .[56]

In November 2016, Martin indicated that the book would not be completed in 2016 or the beginning of 2017: “This is my last scheduled event for 2016. My appearance schedule for 2017 is very limited, and will remain so until WINDS is completed. So if you want to meet me or get a book signed, this will be the last chance for a good few months.”[57]
As of June 2016, a total of 11 chapters from The Winds of Winter have been either read publicly or published as a sample chapter. The point of view characters with released material are Victarion, Aeron, Tyrion, Barristan, Arianne, Theon, Mercy (Arya), and Alayne (Sansa). Several websites, including Goodreads, have dedicated entire discussion panels to any material that has been released from The Winds of Winter, including plot twists, theories, and speculations.
Publication date

Martin believes the last two volumes of the series will be big books of 1,500+ manuscript pages each.[34] He does not intend to separate characters by geography again, as he was forced to do because of the unpublishable length of A Feast for Crows' original manuscript. But, as Martin stated in a 2011 interview, "Three years from now when I'm sitting on 1,800 pages of manuscript with no end in sight, who the hell knows".[35] In April 2011, shortly before the publication of A Dance with Dragons which took him six years to write, Martin hoped that "the last two books will go a little quicker than this one has" and estimated that it would take "three years to finish the next one at a good pace".[36][37] By October 2012, 400 pages of the sixth novel had been written, although Martin considered only the first 200 as "really finished", the rest still needing revisions.[38] In April 2013, Martin estimated that he had a quarter of the book.[39] In the past, Martin has angered some of his fan base for repeatedly estimating his publication dates too optimistically; therefore, he has refrained from making hard estimates for The Winds of Winter's final release date.[1] Ultimately the book "will be done when it's done".[26] In 2012, Martin had acknowledged his concerns about the final novel, A Dream of Spring, not being completed by the time Game of Thrones catches up in its story line to the novels.
GAME OF THRONES BOOKS
